Clients are in the market. They're
invested. They're happy because markets
are at all-time high.
>> The key driver of this bull market has
been AI and tech.
>> Everyone who announces plans to spend is
rewarded.
>> The AI investment, I think, is just
starting to scratch the surface.
>> It's when founders and disruptors show
up at the same time and they collide and
they change the landscape, right? And I
think that's a moment that we're in.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, on a two-day losing
streak, equity futures finding some
stability after pulling back from record
highs as Intel stock jumps after
approaching Apple about securing
investment. And Oracle raises 18 billion
in the second biggest bond sale this
year. Signs of fatigue. What fatigue?
>> I have fatigue. Evidently, the market
feels a lot less than I do right now
because it seems like capital markets
wide open. We're talking about bond
sales at the fastest pace going back uh
several years. If you look at just for
example, high yield bond sales, Oracle
coming out with this massive bond
issuance, leverage starting to creep
into some of the buildout of uh some of
the tech uh equipment. The larger point
here is sure we may see a pullback in
stocks. We're still near record highs.
The pullback is unusual and capital
markets very much wide open
>> and not exactly testing the limits of
investor tolerance right now. Just think
about what's happened in the last 24
hours. Alibaba comes out and says we're
going to spend more stock rallies. Intel
based on our reporting just having a
conversation with Apple and that's
enough to send the stock soaring.
>> You know, I'm confused by that because
Apple didn't confirm its investment. The
fact that Intel is approaching the pl
the likes of Apple raises a question
about just how much or how little
investment commitment they've already
gotten. But the idea that investors
welcome anything having to do with
artificial intelligence feels frothy
maybe, but at the same time, if people
are buying, others will certainly get on
board.
>> Bernstein had a note out this morning
about this potential talks and maybe
this leads to a deal, saying, "Why are
companies so eager to throw money at
Intel's way given their track record?"
Oh, I'll tell you why. Intel is going
around basically saying we are backed by
President Trump and if you want to maybe
you know have some moral relationships
with this Oval Office. It would be a
good idea to look at Intel's way. What
is in it for Apple besides some
patriotic credibility the next time Tim
Cook sees Donald Trump?
>> Intel up in a pre-market by another
3.6%. Let's talk about the Federal
Reserve. Here's a take for you from Mike
Dra of Roth, who says, "The Fed appears
to be placing an undue amount of weight
on highly volatile payrolls figures
while downplaying forward-looking credit
market and financial market indicators.
This market is telling a different
story."
>> Yeah, especially when you pair it with
what he pointed out was 53 straight
months, consecutive months of inflation
above that 2% target. The market has
moved on. Is the market reflecting a
reality that hasn't yet shown up or are
we already seeing that positive reality
get baked into some of the numbers?
Look, a lot of questions right now. Fed
officials seem to be parsing through
this with a varying degree of stress and
difficulty. The issue for me is, are we
baking in to your question you've asked
many times, an acceleration that already
is underway or one that the Fed is only
going to fuel early next year?
>> Over at the Federal Reserve will be
speaking to the man of the moment,
Steven. Governor Marin joining us at
8:15 Eastern time. Do not miss this
conversation. He is pushing for some
aggressive moves from this institution.
He joins us a little bit later this
morning. If you are just joining us,
welcome to the program. Equity futures
slightly softer on the S&P 500. Coming
up over the next hour, we'll catch up
with Matt Miskin of John Hancock as
stocks look to snap a two-day slide. Dan
Ives of Wbush joins us as Intel turns to
Apple to boost his comeback bid and
Joseph Spack of UBS on the street high
upgrade to GM. We begin this hour with
stocks holding steady ahead of the
latest read on the US labor market. Matt
Miskin of John Hancock writing the
following. This year has been a
short-term investor's dream market. We
still like the US the best and are still
calling for an overweight to technology.
Matt joins us now for more. Matt,
welcome to the program. Lots to talk
about. Let's start with that overweight
to technology. Are we reaching the
limits of investor tolerance or can this
one keep on going?
>> Yeah, John, it is getting more
challenging as the valuations are
getting tapped out. It is going to be
hard for valuations to help the
technology sector for a long-term
investor. Short-term investors are
really benefiting from the increase in
day trading and more investors coming in
trying to get as much as they can out of
this market. In our view, multiples are
tapped out across basically all global
equities. So, you're not going to see
that as a return driver, but earnings
growth is the last equity return driver
left. And technology companies are
growing earnings. Now, what we're
hearing and what we're seeing is it's
almost like a circular feedback loop.
There's so much cash on these balance
sheets and they're basically paying each
other for services within the technology
sector. It's almost keeping the money
right there. Um, but we're following the
earnings growth. We're following better
balance sheets, higher ROE companies.
We're trying to minimize lowquality
stocks within portfolios and we still
have that technology weight there
because they are still the highest
quality companies in the world.
>> Matt, let's follow that earnings growth.
This came from Scott Croner of City.
He's going to join us later. The S&P 500
is pricing in a forward growth
expectation in a manner that has only
existed two other times in the past 30
years. Matt, just how high is the bar
into next year?
>> 14% earnings growth is the consensus on
22. We're almost at 23 times for PE. So,
we're basically on the highest multiple.
And then this is a little bit of math. I
know it's early, John, but the PE ratio,
the un the denominator, the E already
embeds 13% earnings growth. So, for you
to get more out of this, you've got to
get either you can't get much more
multiple expansion. You got to get
earnings to beat that 13% great rate.
Now, here's why. Overall for equities,
we've been modestly underweight. It has
been a brutal year to be modestly
underweight equities. But this is the
deal. This is the issue we're dealing
with is that this market is priced for
perfection in a far from perfect world.
There are going to be risks into next
year. Next year, 2026 growth estimates
on the earning side and the economic
side, frankly, are booming. And we think
that next year is going to be a tougher
year than the markets are pricing in.
We're a little bit underweight risk.
We're a bit more overweight bonds, a bit
more overweight income as a return
driver. It has been a tough year. I know
Lisa is probably going to be coming up
next, but we think that that's a more
comfortable position to be, and we think
that's riding out the volatility uh in a
better way.
>> I'm not going to hold you accountable,
Matt, for uh maybe not seeing the rally
for the beginning part of this year, but
I am wondering if someone were a bull
and they were sitting here listening to
everything you would say, they'd say,
"Actually, for big tech, it is almost
perfection in terms of the environment."
And then if you add on top of it rate
cuts heading into next year, that
actually helps some of the multiples
even at these elevated valuations, which
is a reason why everyone's getting
increasingly exuberant. Why do you
reject that?
>> Yeah, I mean, Lisa, you did tweet this
morning about how AI is basically
keeping this economy alive. If you took
out AI, we may be in a recession right
now. You look at all the charts, all the
economic charts, and basically we are
near recession levels as it relates to
jobs data, as it relates to leading
indicators, so on and so forth. The AI
side, the spending has been so powerful.
But what's the next? All right. So, the
companies are buying all this AI stuff,
the infrastructure, the everything
behind it. Now, they got to use it and
they got to make money off of it. That
has yet to be seen. So, as we go into
next year, all right, it's great that we
can now do things a little bit quicker
than before, is that profitable? Is
there way to generate cash flow off
that? And as you see this circular
feedback loop as of late where, as you
commented before I jumped on where it
was, hey, you could just say you're
spending on AI and the market already
rewards you, great. That's capex though,
that you need a return on investment.
So, I think that is where it gets a
little frothy. I think the bull side
rate cuts, yes, but it's not as much
rate cuts as as you you know, looking
into next year. The Fed's only saying
one more. We're getting three this year.
We think that's fair. The tax cuts
aren't as big as you might think. We're
looking at basically just a continuation
of the already the tax cuts. So, we
think the sentiment has are gone beyond
the the positive fundamentals. We're
just going a bit underweight beta, like
a 0.9 beta, uh, as these as the froth
has has gotten more ingrained into this
market.
>> You said something, Matt, that I thought
was really interesting that maybe this
market is overpricing how many rate cuts
is priced into the market is going to be
uh how many are going to be effectuated
next year and yet you see opportunity in
long duration bonds. Can you kind of
square that circle?
>> Yeah, so we're more in the intermediate
part of the curve. We're we're income
investors, so we're we're not playing a
ton of duration as a return. We think we
can get four to 5% in return just from
an income side. In terms of the outlook,
the Fed is saying one next year. To us,
that's too little. We actually think
there's going to be more like three to
four next year. The bond market is
pricing in two. Um but just going into
why the market is so positive to your
point, it's basically saying, hey,
there's tax cuts and rate cuts. My point
is actually that that's the tax cuts
aren't as big as you think. The rate
cuts being priced in aren't as much as
you think. And we actually think that
the bond market's going to have to
adjust more. The bond market's not as
expensive as everything else. It's still
coming out of the biggest bare market
basically in history from 2022.
Everything else is at all-time highs,
super high valuation. Bonds are still
licking the wounds of 2022 and we think
they have got more upside potential in
the next year. That's why we're sitting
here collecting nice income while we
wait.
>> When you say three or four times next
year for the Fed, Matt, is that because
of economic conditions or because a new
regime politically pushed potentially
next year at the Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah. And Marie, this is the debate that
is going on across I think all firms
that are looking at uh Fed policy in the
next year. And you're really trying to
say what, you know, is there a Powell
rate policy and then a postpowell rate
policy? I can't wait to dial into your
your interview at 8:15 um to hear kind
of more perspective, but at the end of
the day, we think actually you're going
to be more uh able to see where the
economy stands in 6 months or so. So,
let's go into May and next year. If the
employment rate and you know, basically
the jobs market is still doing what it's
doing right now and the trend is
negative, you're going to know that we
should be cutting. If the jobs market
reacelerates by the end of the year,
then you're also going to know, all
right, we probably don't need to cut as
much. And also with inflation, you're
going to get more answers on tariffs. We
think actually the Fed is very divided
right now. They may actually come
together into next year because the
policy is going to give you or the
economic data is going to give you more
answers. Uh in our view, the jobs data,
it's very unlikely that it reacelerates.
Uh and we actually think that that it's
going to be weaker than you think into
next year and as a result, the Fed's
probably going to be cutting more than
the markets think into 2026. Yeah, Matt,
just quickly then with that in mind,
Governor Marin coming up a little bit
later. What do you want to know? He's
made some massive calls in the past
week. What's the question you want the
answer to?
>> Yeah, you know, I mean, it's just going
back to the labor data and just saying,
hey, what's the unemployment rate that
would be the trigger to kind of cut more
aggressively? Maybe 50 basis point cuts
or, you know, maybe four to five cuts
next year. And, you know, just looking
at also the housing data. I just I still
struggle with the Federal Reserve not
focusing on housing. It's such a big
part of inflation. It's 35% of CPI and
it is decelerating. You know, some of
the housing data this week's been all
over the place, but generally speaking,
we're seeing housing prices moderate to
nearly negative on a year-over-year
basis. And if that gets caught up into
the CPI, the inflation data in the next
year, they're going to be behind the
curve. So, I'd love to hear about
employment data. What are they watching
exactly? And then, can you talk about
housing and how that's going to feed
into CPI into 2026? That might actually
be a pretty uh compelling thesis for
more cuts in the next year.
>> Interesting. We'll find some space for
that. Matt, always good to catch up,
sir. Thank you. Matt Mkin there of John
Hancock, Governor Steven Min coming up
later on this morning, 8:15 Eastern
time. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara Arnard. Hey, Yahara.
>> Good morning, John. US Envoy Steve
Wickoff is predicting a breakthrough in
the Israel Hamas conflict in the coming
days. The comments follow President
Trump's meetings this week at the UN
with officials from nations including
Egypt, Qatar, Turkey, and Saudi Arabia.
Wickoff didn't offer details, but said
the plan addresses Israel Israeli
concerns as well as those of its
neighbors. Meanwhile, HSBC says it has
made a breakthrough in deploying quantum
computing in financial markets. The bank
says it is the first time real trades
have been used at scale to show the
potential benefits of the emerging
technology. One senior executive even
describing it as a Sputnik moment for
the industry. And a check on Intel
shares. They are rising 3.6% in the
pre-market. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that the chipmaker approached
Apple about securing an investment.
Apple was a longtime Intel customer that
switched to in-house processors in the
past 5 years. The deal would follow a $5
billion investment last week by Nvidia.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> follows a 6% move just yesterday off the
back of this news. Jihara, thank you. Up
again this morning. Up next on the
program, a looming government shutdown.
>> We hope there's a path forward uh to
avoid this Trump shutdown. The Democrats
are trying to hijack it to get a
trillion dollars in new spending and I
don't think that's a very good deal for
the American taxpayer.
>> Here we go again. John Lever of Eurasia
Group up next live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
>> People really do prep for this program.
Watching old interviews, combing through
Bremo's social media accounts. I miss
him. Wasn't bad. E,
>> he did a great job. Matt, thank you for
reading. One viewer, one watcher. We
appreciate it.
>> He knew exactly what was coming. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 almost totally
unchanged. Two-day slide. Easy to sit
here and say the anxietyy's building,
fatigue, and all of that kind of stuff.
We're still within 1% of alltime highs.
Alibaba's just had a big rally off the
back of just announcing more spending.
And Intel, Intel, just off the back of
our story, we're having a conversation
with Apple. Stocks up yesterday, big up
6% up again this morning.
>> You know, it feels new. What's
remarkable is that Apple actually moved
away from Intel as one of their chip
providers not so long ago during 2020 to
bring it inhouse. And now is this
potentially reversal? We have no idea.
This is just the idea of talks, but it
shows how high speculation is that Intel
can get some sort of foothold in the
American economy as a result of some of
the backing from the White House.
>> Intel up 4% in the pre-market. Dan out
of Wedbush joining us in about 15
minutes time. under Savylvanas this
morning, a lumig government shutdown.
>> We hope there's a path forward uh to
avoid this Trump shutdown.
>> The Democrats um requests are completely
unhinged and unreasonable and unserious.
>> We want to sit down. We want to
negotiate. We're not going to get
everything we want. They're not going to
get everything they want.
>> The Democrats are trying to hijack it to
get a trillion dollars in new spending.
And I don't think that's a very good
deal for the American taxpayer.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
White House telling federal agencies to
prepare plans for mass firings in the
event of a government shutdown with
funding set to lapse on October 1st.
Blindberg's Tyler Kendall has the latest
here in New York. Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. The White House
is essentially using the threat of
permanent layoffs as leverage in these
negotiations to keep the government
open. And this does mark a significant
escalation to what's considered to be
normal protocol during a shutdown.
Typically, non-essential workers are
furoughed and then they're brought back
with backay once the government reopens.
But now we have this new memo released
by the OM which is directing agencies to
essentially identify a list of workers
that are funded through uh non-mandatory
funds and then new funding from the one
big beautiful bill as well as to
identify those workers that are part of
programs that might not uh fit with the
president's broader priorities. And the
OM says that these could be the workers
that are on the chopping block. We've
never seen an escalation like this
before. And while the OMB did decline to
to comment on the scope of what these
layoffs could look like, we know that
six out of 10 federal workers are
typically deemed essential during
shutdowns, which means that they can
keep working. But we should also keep in
mind here that the bulk of federal
workers actually aren't in Washington.
Less than 20% work in the nation's
capital. So this could have some pretty
broad ranging impacts. Uh John, we
really saw the negotiations for keeping
the government open derailed earlier
this week. President Trump was actually
supposed to meet today with Democratic
leaders at the White House, but then he
ultimately posted on Truth Social and
said that it wouldn't be worth his time.
Republicans are looking for Democrats to
get on board with a short-term stop gap
measure that would fund the government
until November 21st. But Democrats say
they want to see some key concessions,
including when it comes to healthcare.
They want to roll back some of those
changes that we saw to Medicaid under
the one big beautiful bill. But at this
point, John, it doesn't seem like
Republicans would make any changes to
the president's signature legislation.
>> Kendall with the latest. Thank you.
Let's get to those requests. Joining us
now is John Lever of Eurasia Group. Just
to build on what Tyler was talking about
there, John, the Democrats requests are
completely unhinged, unreasonable,
unserious. You heard the quote, John,
what are they asking for?
>> Yeah, I mean, you know, you heard Tyler
break down a lot of that. They're asking
for changes to the big beautiful bill.
Uh they want to restore some of the
funding that the Trump administration
cut uh unilaterally from agency funding
earlier this year. And there's one
nugget which actually is some of you
know both of those are non-starters and
there's a few other things like that,
but there's one nugget that is a little
bit more bipartisan and that's these
Obamacare subsidies which expire at the
end of the fiscal year. The Democrats
want to make them permanent. Uh the
Republicans are actually open to
extending those um you know but not for
permanently. So, there's several tens of
billions of dollars in healthcare
subsidies that could go along here that
the two sides could agree to, which the
Republicans are saying, "Give us a few
more weeks and we'll work out a deal."
The Democrats are saying, "No, let's do
this right now." Which is why I think
the government's on a verge of a
shutdown.
>> Well, aren't they on the verge of a
shutdown also by the fact that the
speaker is telling lawmakers not to show
up till October 1st when the government
would already be in shutdown? They're
not even trying to take a vote,
>> right? Yeah. They're not going to try to
do this because the Republicans think
they have the upper hand here. And I
think that's why the Democrats are kind
of desperate to look like the Republic
this is the Republicans fault in the
past. You know, the blame game of these
shutdowns is is a big part of this
thing. I think in this case, the blame
game doesn't matter at all. I mean,
President Trump shut down the government
personally for about a month uh in his
first term and paid no political price
for it. So, I I don't think there's a I
don't think when this is all said and
done, anyone's going to emerge from this
uh shutdown as a winner or a loser. And
I would be looking at the policy. And
what the Republicans are saying is that
we don't really care about the policy.
And now you've got the Office of
Management and the Budget saying we're
going to shut down agencies permanently
uh if you allow us to shut them down
temporarily. And that seems like a big
policy loss to me. So, if I were the
Democrats, I'd be extraordinarily
worried about uh this shutdown coming,
but it looks like they're headed there
anyway. Is that memo from the White
House just more of a threat and pressure
they're trying to exert on Democrats or
are they serious not letting a good
crisis go to waste and actually want to
eliminate government jobs?
>> Yeah, I mean it could be a threat. We
don't know. But you got to take it
seriously because this administration
has done quite a few unprecedented
things. We know that they want to
eliminate uh agencies. We know they want
to reduce headcount in the federal
government and we know they're looking
for opportunities to do so legally and
this could provide an opportunity to do
so. They're kind of saying, you know, go
ahead Democrats, make my day. Uh let's
shut down the government and we'll see
what happens. And you know, I think that
this is a bluff that I would personally
be scared to call if I were the
Democrats because of all the other in,
you know, insanely unprecedented things
and different ways this administration's
been pushing the federal bureaucracy.
And I think it's a real concern. John,
if the government were to shut down and
they do make good on this threat, which
departments do you think would get
eliminated?
>> Oh, I I mean, they've already eliminated
they've already eliminated the
Department of Education. So, I mean, I
think that that's the lowhanging fruit.
I think there's probably going to be
workers at the Department of Labor that
are affected by this. That's one of the
uh areas the Republicans are typically
more hostile. I think it's possible you
get the Environmental Protection Agency.
There's a a whole host of ones where I
think that there's, you know, HHS, I
assume there's some bloat they want to
get rid of. There's a whole host of ones
that are not core to what Republicans
care about. And I think it's important
to note they have discretion to put the
money where they do care about it
because either some of these funds have
been declared mandatory, so not subject
to appropriation, or because the
administration can deem workers
essential. So, one place they're not
going to be cutting is immigration and
custom enforcement. They're not going to
be cutting the Department of Defense.
They're not going to be cutting um you
know, social security or Medicare
because those are mandatory programs.
But these are they're basically just
taking they'll be able to take control
of the government and put the money into
the enforce law enforcement agencies
that they like. Ignore the ones the
Democrats don't. And this could go on
for a prolonged period of time.
>> John, you said earlier that there are no
political winners or losers from this,
but can you give us a sense of from a
polling perspective how much uh the
average American voter really cares
about this? I know the market isn't
paying any attention whatsoever until it
goes on for more than a month, but how
about the average rank and file member
of the United States?
>> Yeah, I mean there's just not great I
mean you know I think that there's
polling data from previous episodes
where you can say who's to blame for the
shutdown and you know ask whose fault
this is. But if you look out over a
period of 6 or 12 months, the shutdown
fades into the background. So what
really matters here is how does this
affect the midterm elections? We are
more than 12 months out from the midterm
elections. This is not going to affect
the midterm elections at all. So, I
think that either side, you know, the
political consequences of this are going
to be extremely muted. And we've seen
this time and time again. You get a big
shutdown in 2014, a big shutdown in
2019. It's just not what voters care
about 6 and 12 months down the road.
Which is why I think ultimately the
politics of this are completely
irrelevant and it's just an inside
baseball inside below game to argue
about it. But the policy impact is the
thing that politicians should be looking
at.
>> Well, Hakeim Jeffrey sat down with her
colleagues at Bloomberg government
yesterday for exclusive round table and
he said Democrats are really going to be
focusing on healthcare. Is that some
place that Democrats could potentially
make inroads ahead of the midterm
election? And when it comes to this
government shutdown,
>> it's typically been the area where
Democrats pull better than Republicans.
So, I think this is them trying to get
the upper hand coming into the midterm
elections. Totally plausible to me. I
guess that that could be something. But,
you know, I think a lot of this stuff is
just fades into background noise, right?
I mean, how many of these shutdown
battles have we had over the last decade
and how many actual shutdowns have we
had? And there's so much else going on
in in the news cycle that I think this
just ends up fading away. Yeah, people's
vacations will be disrupted and there
will be real problems that start to bite
in the real world. Um, particularly if
the shutdown goes on a long time, but I
just don't think this is a great way to
position yourself.
>> Hey, John. Thank you, sir. As always,
John Lieieber there of Eurasia Group
talked a lot about fatigue in the
market. Fatigue with this story. People
in this market just do not care about
this story at all.
>> I think it doesn't even rise to the
fatigue level because there are other
things to get fatigued about. So, people
just sort of ignore.
>> We're going to ignore until I guess we
can't know more. Coming up on the
program, Dan Ives of Wet Bush as Intel
turns to Apple to boost this turnaround.
[Music]
two-day losing streak on the S&P 500
this morning. Down by just a tenth of
1%, still within 1% of all-time highs.
Decent rally yesterday for Intel. It
continues this morning. We'll catch up
and get you up to speed on what's
happening with that name in just a
moment. Let's turn to the bond market.
Yields higher for a fifth down six
yesterday. We're down this morning by
not even a basis point across the curve.
Two's back to 360. 10's back to 4:14.
Gonna keep promoting this one, but later
on this morning, 8:15 Eastern time,
Governor Myron's going to join us. You
know what my first question is going to
be?
>> What is it?
>> I just want to know how well received he
was on the committee walking in. How
different the experience was to what he
expected going into it.
>> Yeah. And what he felt about the other
members and some of their arguments and
which he found most credible. My main
question for him is what is his response
function if inflation starts to tick
back up? What is that type of policy? Is
it to stop cutting rates or is it to
keep going and use other levers to
potentially suppress long-term rates?
>> These are conversations we've got to
have a little bit later this morning.
Look out for that. That's the setup.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Here's Danny Burgerer
with more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Let's get with that top story
that you flagged. It is Intel. Shares
are soaring just under 4% this morning.
Approaching Apple about an investment
according to our reporting. Early
stages, but the two companies are
apparently also looking at how to work
together. Already some bearishness on
that. Bernstein's analyst Stacy Rascone
writing that they have a capability
issue. Money doesn't solve that problem
and they continue to question why people
want to, in his words, throw money at
Intel given their track record.
Elsewhere, Hertz, those shares also
moving much higher in the pre-market
this morning, up just about 4.5%. They
are offering $250 million worth of
senior exchangeable notes due in 2030.
They say they will use that to help pay
down their debt. As part of this
announcement, they also mentioned that
they're doing a transaction with Bill
Aman's Persing Square that will allow
them to get more Long Hurt shares. So
again, those moving higher. To the
downside this morning though is Oracle,
but this thing has had a massive run
higher. Shares are down 2%. Redburn
analysts saying that currently what
traders are pricing in is a blue sky
scenario that looks unlikely to
materialize. So they initiate coverage
of Oracle with the cell saying at some
point this market is going to stop
focusing on the headlines and start
focusing on the fundamentals. John
>> Danny, we'll get to that in just a
moment. Danny, thank you so much. On a
radar this morning, White House
officials directing federal agencies to
plan for mass firings during a potential
shutdown. Agencies must prepare to
suspend non-essential jobs if Congress
misses the October 1st funding deadline.
Elsewhere, new tariffs are on the table
for robotics, machinery, and medical
device imports after the Trump
administration opened formal trade
investigations. The Commerce Department
has $270 days to make its policy
recommendations. And finally, as Danny
indicated, Oracle launching an $18
billion US investment grade bond sale as
the software maker ramps up its spending
to meet the needs of the artificial
intelligence boom. The move marks the
second largest bond sale this year, and
the order book was huge. It was massive
at a time when everyone is looking to
get a pulled of something that is high
quality. Just to give you a sense, we
were talking yesterday uh with Vishur
about how we aren't seeing as much
issuance as the market even wants. And
yesterday we saw something like $88
billion worth of orders for this $18
billion bond sale. It was upgraded. The
prices went down. Yields uh went the
prices went up. Yields went down on some
of this paper. And this goes to $180
billion of debt sales just in September
so far alone, which would be the
greatest monthly tally going back for
investment grade bond sales in the US
since February. Question is, is this the
beginning of an issuance boom? Does this
highlight how open capital markets are?
And are we starting to see the tech
world use leverage, not just free cash
flow, to pay for some of these
investments?
>> It's not just IG, it's junk, too. You
talked about it. junk bond sales
according to the data here at Bloomberg.
The teams put it together set to reach
their highest monthly total since
September 2021. The market's wide open.
It's taken down the supply quite nicely.
>> It raises this question and I think it's
a really important one. If the Fed is
cutting rates, what are they looking to
stimulate? Doesn't this indicate that
the market's already wide open? And is
the market wide open because of the
promise of Fed rate cuts to come? Or is
this independent of it because there is
so much demand and all that cash on the
sidelines that people talk about? All of
those bond investments are throwing off
cash as well that need to get
reinvested. So you have this dynamic
where if you build it, they will come.
This market wants to buy and so they
will be manufactured by Wall Street.
>> Oracle this morning down about 2% but
that's nothing compared to the rally
we've seen more recently. Let's stick
with tech sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Intel is investment from
Apple to bolster its comeback bit. The
company's discussing how to work
together more closely. Joining us now is
Dan Ice of Wbush. Dan, welcome to the
program. Let's just start with Intel.
What problems does Intel have that money
solves?
>> Well, look, I mean, when you think about
first of all innovation, I mean, now
with Nvidia being a backer, I mean,
that's something that's important
because look, I mean, you talked about
some of the issues that Intel's had, you
now have the government backing. You
have Nvidia bringing them into the AI
game. Look, they are the comeback kid,
Intel. So, could Apple do a deal with
them? I think anything's on the table
right now because also this just also
gets you in a better spot in the 202
area code relative to I think the view
right now you want to be in the Intel
game rather than outside if you're in
big tech.
>> Well Dan, let's talk about why and let's
talk about the government stake in
Intel. Amarie talked about it. Do you
see that? Do these companies see that as
an incentive to partner with the company
knowing that it gets them in the good
favor of the White House? Oh yeah, I
mean my name is Dan. I mean the point is
like that 100% is at play here because
it gets you I think in good grace in
terms of the 202 curve. You we're
clearly seeing that this is an an arms
race between US and China. Intel has
clearly been the lagger and and
obviously it's been a you know it's been
a nightmare. But you know now with this
backing you get Nvidia, you potentially
get Apple, you potentially get others. I
mean it changes the story. They look
they have to execute but I mean this
look this is almost u you know
historical what's happening for Intel.
The stage is set now they have to
execute.
>> Dan is it uncomfortable for you though
the US government is just picking the
winners and the losers.
Look, I mean, it's the new it's the new
rules of the road, right? And and I
think it's one where when you look at
Intel, if they didn't have Trump
administration backing, you don't get
Nvidia back, you don't ultimately get
Apple, right? So, it's one where this
was the lagard, you could argue,
especially what's happened in China,
they needed to essentially, you know,
put fuel behind this in terms of when it
comes to Intel. But look, I think the
reality is big tech CEOs are adjusting
to new rules of the game. Intel's on the
positive side of that. Others will be on
the negative. And I think in this fourth
industrial revolution, that's how this
is going to continue to play out.
>> Well, do you think Tim Cook is going to
do it just to get a better welcome
treatment in the 202 area code as you
put it?
>> Yeah, look, I don't think Cook's doing
it solely to, you know, for that reason,
but I mean, strategically, obviously,
there could be good reasons why they do
it. And look, Apple right now, I mean,
they went from back against the wall as
we've talked a lot in the program to now
they're on offensive mode. I think, you
know, that Google Gemini deal on the AI
front is probably next. They could do an
Intel deal. They could do others
because, you know, since that DOJ win
for Google, that gives Apple, I think, a
lot more flexibility. But I if that
phone rings from the 202 area code, I
think Cook picks it up. We were talking
earlier and John brought up how it was
notable that Intel shares rallied just
in the idea that they approached Apple
to have discussions even without any
result. We saw a similar uh kind of
response when it came to Oracle shares
not today but yesterday and the day
before when there was a discussion
around uh potentially investing more in
open AI and then there was this question
of Nvidia and how much money they've
been investing in open AI and that this
caused both shares or the value of open
AI and the shares of Nvidia to pop.
Doesn't the market reaction make you a
bit queasy when we're just buying first,
asking questions later?
>> Yeah, Lisa, I thought you nailed it what
you said before in terms of just the the
green light essentially right now in
terms of like not just in terms of Fed,
but everything that's happening in big
tech, right? I mean, this is now the
next stage of growth. And I think for
investors, they're going to bet as
employees on, they're not going to bet
against it because, you know, it's our
view tech stocks rally hard into year
end because now you're actually seeing
this next stage of investment in AI. You
know, government's backing it as well.
And I think it just comes back to like
investors that have been against this
and been weary. They're right now in
hibernation mode, underperforming, and
they can find AI in the spreadsheets.
It's important not to talk too uh too
much in generalities because you're
right that this is a sea change and I
think a lot of people do agree with you.
There is a technological revolution
underway. There are going to be some
very big winners. It will lay the
groundwork for whatever is the new next
phase of business and uh work. Oracle
shares I want to talk about those given
the fact that we were speaking with
Galluria yesterday who said this is one
company that isn't showing it where
we're not seeing that positive operating
revenue that they can put into some of
these investments. that's betting on
things like OpenAI and putting more
money into it that it could possibly see
profitability in the near term. Do you
see pockets of excess even if you are a
big believer in this story?
>> That's like saying Scotty Sheffer is not
a good golfer and he's not going to
crush a Beth Paige Roger. I mean to to
me it's when you look at what Oracle's
done. I mean they they're the case
study. I mean benny off Adobe I look at
Oracle that's the playbook because
they've bet on AI that's what investors
are focused on terms of profitability
some of those other metrics that's right
now I think in in in the background
you're focused on what the growth looks
like when it comes to AI and Oracle I
could argue is still being
underestimated relative to where I see
it over the next one two years as they
play just like Microsoft just like
Google just like Amazon in terms of big
tech the strong will get stronger.
That's what Oracle is.
>> So Dan, not a perfect example, but work
with me here. I think it was back in
2018. Do you remember Long Island iced
tea and there became something like Long
Blockchain?
>> I remember having conversations about
that at the time. And there were people
who quite rightly had a very very real
interest in what was happening with
crypto and Bitcoin. They made the case
that you shouldn't allow that to
distract you from the real things that
are happening. At the same time, you
shouldn't allow the real things to
distract you from the crazy things that
are happening elsewhere. So Dan, do you
know any signs of bubble type behavior
happening beyond the stories that you
have conviction in that you are cautious
about?
>> Oh, of look, there's fraud. I mean,
there's there's companies I talk to,
they say AI 50 times, and I and I it
feels like basically that there's really
no technology there, right? So that's
why we spend all of our time figuring
out who are the winners, who are the
impostors. There will be froth like
there always is but it's my view like
this is the real spent because of the
use cases exploding and my view of where
autonomous and ultimately robotics is
going. But look that's why you have to
be weird. You have to figure out who are
the winners who are the impostors and
that's why we spend all of our time
doing it. But Dan, as you know, in
experience, you also have to be prepared
for a wash out of everything at some
point. And the same thing happened with
crypto. And I wonder, and again, I know
it's not the perfect example or
parallel, but I wonder if that's a phase
we have to go through, too. And whether
that phase isn't too far away.
>> Yeah, I continue to view it. It was
1995. This is much more of a 1996 moment
rather than 1999 moment. And we've said,
I think it's still a few years as this
all plays out, these trillions being
spent. and and and it's our view like in
that AI party, it's still about 10:15
10:30 p.m. Party goes to 4:00 a.m.
>> Dan, I wonder what you think if you do
start seeing more deals in the bond
market to finance some of the uh
buildout of the infrastructure required
for tech similar to what we see from
Oracle but from others as well. If you
start to see that tech issuance really
skyrocket, does that make you more
concerned if this is being used uh if
this is being done on leverage rather
than free operating cash?
>> Look, I think it's a balance as you hit
before, but look, I think it's important
because right now it's like it's only
the call the tech stalwarts that are
really the ones that have fun the 350
billion in capbacks. What you're now
going to see is you're going to see a
lot of other tech players. They'll
finance this whether it's debt, whether
it's their own cash because they cannot
be left behind. So I think this is
something from a bond market
perspective. It's a green light. You're
going to see I think significant
issuance out there, but you want to see
these companies. They'll be supported by
investors to bet on the AI revolution.
You don't want to see them in that right
lane going 45 miles an hour.
>> Dan, if I could just ask you one final
question on the geopolitics of this all.
We had that Alibaba announcement this
week about more AI spending, but also
the fact that they are using Nvidia
chips. Do you continuously see China
relying at this moment on Nvidia or do
you see China really moving into their
homegrown heroes?
>> Look, I mean they could obviously Huawei
and they'll have all the focus on
domestic and they're doing some great
things. There's one chip in the world
fueling the AI revolution. led by
godfather of AI Jensen Nvidia and that's
why you know Baba and others despite
what you hear from Beijing they'll
continue even if it's the number three
chip that Nvidia comes out with it's
still years ahead of what they have
domestically and that that continues to
be the biggest chip on the poker table
for Trump and he knows that and that's
why wherever he goes who's to the right
of him wearing black leather jacket
Jensen
>> Dan I appreciate it sir as always good
to touch base Dan I of Wbush there on
the latest on big tech and the AI trade.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yihara. Hey,
Yihara.
>> Hi, John. Denmark is launching a probe
over potential Russian involvement in
two drone attacks against the country
this week. The Danish defense minister
described the the strikes as looking
systematic. Authorities are set to
change legislation to restrict the use
of drones in Danish airspace and discuss
how to involve NATO allies.
Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of H&M
surging more than 8% in Sweden after it
reported better than expected earnings
in the third quarter as its turnaround
efforts take hold. The Swedish retailer
ramped up advertising to help draw
shoppers back, offsetting the consumer
uncertainty and rising trade barriers.
This is the second consecutive quarter
where earnings beat expectations.
And Delta Airlines is is addressing
reports of toxic fumes leaking into
cabin air supply. According to the Wall
Street Journal, Delta is replacing power
units on more than 300 of its Airbus
jets. The carrier is already about 90%
through the process. The issue stems
from earlier reports of toxic fume
events leading to brain injuries and
illnesses. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Never good news coming
from the anime business, is there? toxic
fume events. That sounds like quite the
uh quite the happening.
>> I guess the good news is they're
figuring that out. Up next on the
program, relief for European autos.
Market's become very very narrow and
unfortunately companies like autos and
and a lot of the older industries are
not getting the capital that they need.
Europe is muddling through um with uh
frankly um very difficult regulations.
The US as ever going completely the
other way.
>> A conversation next with Joseph Speck of
UBS from New York City this morning.
Good morning. You're watching Wimbeck
TV.
[Music]
Equities softer this morning. We're down
by close to 210 of 1% on the S&P.
Similar move on the NASDAQ 100, just a
little bit lower following two days of
losses on the S&P. And the surveillance
this morning, relief for European autos.
the market's become very very narrow and
unfortunately companies like autos and
and a lot of the older industries are
not getting the capital that they need.
Europe is muddling through um with uh
frankly um very difficult regulations.
The US as ever going completely the
other way. Growth is becoming harder and
harder and harder and investors are
looking for growth wherever they can
they can find it. So here's the latest
this morning. The United States cutting
tariffs on EU autos to 15% from 25
despite some of the headwinds facing the
whole of the sector. Joseph Spack of UBS
is upgrading his call on GM to a street
high price target of 81. We trade this
morning at 59.91. And Joseph joins us
now this morning. Joseph, welcome to the
program. Still getting an idea of where
the policy is and where it will be over
the next few years. Just walk us through
this upgrade, this bigger call on GM and
this new price target. What's behind it,
Joseph?
>> Sure. Thank you very much for having me
this morning. Um essentially when we
look at where estimates and expectations
for GM came have gone post the initial
round of tariffs um there was a big hit
to earnings expectations. So for
instance GM has has always had this GMA
target of 8 to 10% margins again for
their North American business. When we
look at how those tariffs have um
impacted them we would say it's about a
300 basis point hit. And in fact, if you
look at the second quarter, margins in
that segment were about 6%. What's
interesting to us is that as we look
towards 2026 and 2027 estimates for GM,
expectations are still in that 6 to 6
1/2% range, we see a path back to 8 to
10% driven by a number of levers that GM
has at its disposal. Um, and and and one
of them is actually um a little bit of
tariff relief. So for instance, even
though it's not officially finalized
yet, there is sort of an agreement in
place with South Korea to move that
tariff rate from 25 to 15%, GM does
actually import a number of vehicles
from South Korea. We estimate that's
about a billion dollars annualized. Uh
while we're not counting it and it's not
in our model, um we believe the odds are
more likely than not that there could be
potential uh relief on Mexico, which uh
obviously a lot of uh vehicles are
imported from Mexico for for GM and US
autos broadly. And you know that rate is
still at 25% where you've seen the EU um
as you mentioned earlier go to 15%,
Japan, Korea also 15%. If that were to
occur, that would be about another
billion dollars or so. Um, now the other
main factor I want to sort of call out
this morning is the that there are um
the the regulatory environment in the US
has meaningfully changed. So that has a
couple of functional um applications or
or for GM and US autos at large. The
first is they don't need to buy um
credits from Tesla or other EV makers to
be compliant for GHG, carbon or even
fuel economy in in in some cases. Uh in
2024, GM expensed about a billion
dollars of those credits. Now, in 25, we
think that's a smaller amount, but that
still is I think tailwind when headed
into uh 2026 and beyond. And the final
thing I'd say again is that because of
the regulatory environment in the US,
the automakers including GM really had
to sort of make move their mix towards a
certain level of vehicles um including
smaller cars including some of the loss
making EVs and away from the large and
profitable fulls size pickup trucks and
full-size SUVs that these companies
make. So, we estimate on average, for
instance, those higher profit vehicles,
you know, might have a variable profit
of about $17,500.
If we take everything else GM makes
um and a variable profit of about $6,000
per vehicle, and we just assume a 1%
shift from low margin to high margin, um
which is only a little bit over 30,000
units, it's not even that much, that is
worth $400 million. So, um, in one year,
maybe 1% is reasonable. O, over a number
of years, we think that can continue to
move higher. And we see evidence of this
because GM has announced a $4 billion
investment in the US. Um, some of that
is um reallocating uh capacity from
Mexico to the US because of trade
policy, but a portion of that is for
their full-size SUV. And what's
interesting to us about that is all the
full size SUVs are already made in the
US. So this is clear incremental
capacity to us. That's a signal that
they think there's more demand for the
product. It's demand that was probably
artificially capped because of
regulatory policy and those are very
profitable vehicles. So at full ramp
that could easily be over a number of
years. Another one half billion to2
billion for GM.
>> We just have about a minute left. I'm
just wondering how much your uh upgrade
really includes moving production back
to the United States even at potentially
a higher cost.
Yeah, it it really doesn't um uh
contemplate a lot of that especially for
2026. In 2027, we do um anticipate that
there are more vehicles built in the US
because of policy and clearly the weight
there is a wage rate differential
between the US and Mexico. But also, you
know, we think with new manufacturing
techniques, some new some new um uh
automation for instance, there's ways to
sort of help offset that differential.
>> Joseph, thanks for making time for us.
Appreciate it. Jesus back there of UBS.
An interesting call following his call
just yesterday to upgrade that price
target to a street high on General
Motors. USMCA is going to be the big
focus for these names into next year.
>> Absolutely. Especially since we already
see Mexico coming on board what the
United States is doing. For these
automakers, they actually are at the
moment they're a lot of these parts are
tariff exempt because they are in the
condition right now as being USMCA
compliant. The problem is for these
automakers is they need to see where the
Trump administration wants to move on
the margins this trade deal and it's
going to mean a lot for them in terms of
their supply chains.
>> Got some news from CarMax just moments
ago. Not good numbers.
>> No, they miss uh estimates by a
significant amount. The idea that it was
64 cents earnings per share results
versus the estimate of a dollar3 cents.
What I find notable, and I'd love to dig
more into this, is that used car prices
were actually lower and used car volumes
uh resale volumes were uh substantially
lower. I'm curious as to why. Is this
because of an increase in the incoming
new vehicles or is this the lack of
consumer demand?
>> Stock is down by almost 6% so far this
morning. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Scott Cronin of City,
Heidi Kreb, Relica of the Council on
Foreign Relations, Ozan Tman of Deutsche
Bank, Matt Hornback of Morgan Stanley.
The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance up next.
[Music]
>> The economy is absorbing a
stagflationary shock. A
>> lot of the strength in the economy is
being driven by things like consumer
spending. There's still a lot of
uncertainty about which way the economy
breaks.
>> We think that the yield curve is kind of
in equilibrium here. The spreads are
tight, but the yields are right.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg Savanded starts right now. And
your scores look like this. Two-day
slide on the S&P 500 could become day
three. We're down a tenth of 1% on the
S&P, down by 2/10 on the NASDAQ 100. In
the bond market, price and yield shaping
up as follows. Yields higher by not even
a basis point. The 2-year at 361 going
into this data point at 8:30 Eastern
time. Another read on the jobs market.
Jobless claims just around a corner.
>> Yeah. Is there a sense of a reality
check, a gut check if some of the
economic data starts coming in
significantly softer than people
previously expected? I keep wondering
what's the bigger risk right now, a
reaceleration that actually does fuel
some form of inflation or a melt up that
defies even some of the more optimistic
outlooks or is it a downturn in the
economic outlook? It could break either
way as we were talking about, but this
is really the key question and which
data point is going to really be the
kicker to make that deciding factor.
>> Seemingly stocks are priced for one and
not the other. Stocks are priced for a
pickup and a reaceleration. Based on
that, you'd have to imagine the risk is
that we don't see it going into 26. Are
we seeing any validation of that
whatsoever? Working our way into Q4,
closing out Q3.
>> Yeah, we are. I mean, that's the bottom
line, but not everywhere, right? I mean,
we just saw CarMax underperform. Big
question as to why and what this means
about consumer demand, particularly at
the lower end of the income sphere. On
the other hand, some of the big tech
giants that were worried about getting
into bubbles, etc., have delivered.
Their earnings have been incredible. And
even as they make these big investments,
they've been largely doing it with cash
and they've been delivering the earnings
to show for it. If that continues, well,
maybe this is something different.
>> Jobless claims 830, we're looking for
233. Previous week 231. Those are decent
numbers based on that. That's a strong
labor market. But there are people on
this Federal Reserve right now very
concerned. Governor Bowman, Governor
Myron, who thinks that we should be
moving a lot more quickly, much more
aggressively.
>> And Governor Myron's going to make his
case right here on this program. And he
really thinks that and he says his
opinion is not going to change until the
data changes. And right now he thinks
that we are just way too restrictive in
this economy and he's going to continue
calling for 50 basis points of cuts.
This is going to be challenging though
for Fed chair J Pal in his final months
of running the Federal Reserve. How does
he coales the different thinking when
you have other members of the Fed coming
out still saying they are concerned
about the other risk which is inflation
and the fact that the economy is still
working through the one price adjustment
when it comes to tariffs. A conversation
with Governor Marin about an hour away,
8:15 Eastern time. Look out for that.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Scott Cronin of City as investors
question the AI fueled rally. Haido
Kruba retica of the Council on Foreign
Relations joins us as the US offers
Argentina an economic lifeline and Matt
Hornbach of Morgan Stanley on a divided
Federal Reserve as they watch for fresh
labor data. We begin this hour with
stocks finding some stability following
two days of losses. Scott Cronin of City
assessing the present value of future
growth, writing, "The biggest question
facing US equity investors is whether
the growth expectations embedded in
markets can be met if not exceeded."
Scott joins us now for more. Scott, good
morning.
>> Great being here, Jonathan.
>> It's good to see you in person here in
New York. Thank you, sir. I wanted to
share another quote of yours with our
audience. Enjoyed this note. The S&P 500
pricing in a forward growth expectation
in a manner that has only existed two
other times in the past 30 years. just
how aggressive is this pricing?
>> Well, I I think we know for some time
we've been pricing in soft landing if
not Goldilocks, right? But that's where
you begin to layer in the influence of
tech and the AI spending, you know, the
paradigm that's underway here. And you
what what happens is that the market is
pricing in in our view an extended
period of acceleration and fundamentals
related to this. Okay. So what does that
map to historically and and we we pulled
out this tool we use present value of
future growth. We last used it back in
22 in the spring of 22 when we were
navigating recession risk and we were
trying to determine how deep the
sell-off might be. And at that point in
time we said well look at on this
measure right the S&P 500 is paying
almost nothing for future growth. All
the value in the index was predicated on
the present value of flat earnings.
Okay. So you hold that concept a while.
When you're at that point say wow it's
pretty good optionality to say that over
time earnings are going to grow. I'm
going to be bullish. Right? which we we
did back at that point in time the
riskreward skewed positive. Now we're
flip side right now we've come kind of
full circle to where when we're looking
at how much of the market's value is it
can be justifiable according to where
future growth is right now and right now
it's approaching 50% of the value. We've
seen this in two period periods
previously. One was 99 going into the
2000 bubble you burst if you will and
then the other was in 21 when we're
coming out of the COVID risk on rally
right which you remember a lot of
companies got caught up in hey this
growth dynamic is going to perpetuate it
didn't right so the bottom line here in
all of this is that this is an issue the
market clearly is pricing in a a a
decent amount of expectation for forward
growth we get it the AI you know story
line fits that perfectly the the what's
so interesting about this is though is
that this doesn't mean you have to run
to the sidelines.
Back in previous periods when you've had
this much of the market pricing in that
future growth, the median returns for 12
months is 7%. The point being here is
that as long as the fundamentals
continue to come through, you don't have
to wig out on the valuation. And that's
where we kind of go back and forth with
gosh, is the market rich? The market's
rich if you don't think the earnings are
going to grow. The market's fine if you
think you're going to continue to see
this earnings tailwind which I think you
know increasingly we're very comfortable
predicating a view on.
>> Well, let's talk about the market and
what the market is. So this is index
level analysis. Can you break it down
tech whether it's the same story or
whether it's different?
>> Yeah. So that's even so in our view okay
in work we've done previously is that
we're suggesting that roughly half of
the S&P 500 uh is affected by AI. So
let's call it AI affected. That leaves
the other half that's going to be much
more traditional. Okay. So, so we know
that we're essentially trying to
navigate dual markets here. One is this
AI thing that we're talking about
persistently right now. The other is
everything else that probably ties back
more to what the Fed's doing, what the
economy is doing, so on and so forth.
The traditional macro condition.
Interestingly, um both parts of the
market are are equally priced versus
their history on things like PEG ratios
and future growth and future valuations.
So nothing is being given away here,
right? No matter where you look in this
market, you're predicating a view on
something improving. Either that that AI
influence on fundamentals for the tech
and related part of the market or on the
gradual um benefit we're going to get
from lower rates supporting a pick up in
economic activity going into 2026. So
we're out there and extended. And again,
it's not shaking us. is just saying when
look at the riskreward here the
importance of companies continuing to
support all this with fundamental
improvement is is the big story line for
us
>> this bifurcation these different markets
how much has that been the reason why
this is a market that's less sensitive
to economic data it's a market that's
less sensitive longer term to even some
of the Fed policies like raising rates
to where they had been
>> you're you're spot on I'm going to get
myself in trouble here a little bit
because I'm going to say the Fed hasn't
really mattered for the past two years
we have different sheriff in town that's
really been been the issue here and
that's been you know we're at least two
years into this AI spending
infrastructure development tailwind
right and it's negated a lot of the
historic views on how you think about
the Fed condition I mean a year ago we
wrote we're writing a note on cycle
limbo basically we didn't think there
was any economic cycle in a historic
perspective because the business cycle
itself had been influenced you know to a
certain degree by what you're beginning
to see in terms of the uh capex that's
been unfolding related to AI. So the
game has changed and so the historical
you know perspectives here certainly
important but we got to be a little bit
careful in terms of how closely uh we we
expect them to give us a roadmap from
this point going forward. There is a
question though with what Fed policy
what trajectory it does take when it
comes to the other 50% of the market and
Deutsch Bank put out this uh chart that
I thought was fascinating showing that
without the overlay of tech spending the
US would have been in a recession
earlier this year and this coheres with
what we've heard from the CEOs of United
and others in terms of consumer demand
if the Fed cuts rates and based on what
you're seeing right now do you see a
reaceleration in that other 50% that
could lead to some sort of leadership
differential in the market?
>> Yeah. So, we're talking about this
broadening thesis and I think it's
really important here and the way I
think about it is again I'm not the
house house Fed watcher but what I will
say is that from my perspective um the
Fed should not be in restrictive policy
right now. You look at two years of sort
of non-existent industrial production
growth. You look at some of the signs of
stress you're seeing coming on the
consumer side and everything tells me
that the Fed should be at least towards
neutral if not potentially potentially
stimulative. Now, when you look at
within the market though, how does that
play out? Well, you go down the small
midcap space. Much less of this tech
influence, much more traditional um
economic sensitivity. Small midcap's
been in an earnings recession for two
years. You've had negative earnings for
23 and 24 and you're just now starting
to show signs of an inflection.
>> Well, doesn't it create a bubble? I
mean, honestly, don't you get more
leveraged fueled buildout of AI that
ends up creating the bubble that you're
worried about?
>> Well, okay. This is where I'm going to
go take it down a little bit different
path. So yeah, so what I'm suggesting
here is the broadening narrative is
important, but in terms of how the index
continues to march to new highs, well,
I'm going to argue that I need this AI
influence tech component participating,
right? But the path to a higher index
level is now I get other sectors that
begin to contribute positively to the
price action. And you look at the
bifurcation in sector performance this
year, it's pretty stark. You know, we've
had this mega cap growth tech leadership
got it very clear on what's driving all
of that. yet other parts of the market
that are still trying to find footing
here.
>> The Fed the Fed chair said this week
that stocks are fairly highly valued.
When Alan Greenspan talked about
exuberance in the market, then the
market went on a four-year bull run. Is
that where you think we are? Four more
years of this.
>> You know, we we talk about, you know,
there's as much meltup risk as there is
meltdown risk, right? And so, we have to
go down that path. Um, exuberance is a
is a is a tough word. It's a tough word.
What I would just say is that the
expectations for performance
fundamentally to follow through here are
are big and growing. Now, you know,
there's other elements of this. You
know, we we talk about the productivity
enhancement that potentially comes from
AI, and this is a this is a big story.
As it turns out, you know, at an index
level, your your your sort of ebida
margins have been proving pretty
persistently over the past decade. you
already have sort of an improving
quality dynamic that's at work as a
function of the read through of the
increased capitalization of these mega
cap growers. Okay, but you know I can
also look at the S&P 500. I like to show
a chart that looks at the employment for
the S&P 500 over the past year. It's
flat. So Q225
over Q224. No net gain in in in in jobs
within the S&P 500. Sales per employee
though looks like this. it's up into the
right. So, so as you talk about the
market's expensive, it's euphoric. At
the same time, there's something
happening here where you're getting more
productivity out of your workforce. And
this is where you come back to the AI
opportunity for my perch. If it puts us
in a position where corporate America,
I'm thinking mainly large cap equities
at this point, are more persistently
profitable, then you know what I do? I
assign a higher terminal value to that
company. I'm able to justify a higher
through cycle valuation for the
companies in the index.
>> Scott, this was super smart. I just
wanted to finish on one thing. You lived
99 and the late '9s and I get that every
bubble is different, but are the things
that you experienced then that you're
seeing now? Is there a lesson then that
you would apply to this period?
>> Yeah. Uh I mean there's a couple of
lessons, right? And I think we have to
expect that as you go down this path,
there's going to be a lot of tag on
companies that do find the way to
markets with the next novel element of
this. Um, a number of things were going
on back in the tech bubble. I think in
general, you know, we over capitalized
the internet infrastructure buildout,
but at the time what you were doing a
lot of the times, you know, these
companies weren't projected to have
positive cash flow for several years.
And so your price targets were again a
function of where you thought terminal
value 10 years down the road was going
to be. not a really good place for if
things begin to unwind fundamentally,
right? I I do think that the nature of
the companies involved in the spending
right now where it is coming out of free
cash generation is is in incredible,
right? And it's very powerful and and
these companies are able to do this
without compromising other balance sheet
uh you know minations. For example, last
I checked five of the seven mag seven
are still net reducing fully fully
diluted share count, right? which is a
pretty impressive place to be. So I
think we're in pretty good shape in
terms of the foundation of the companies
making the investments. Now we have to
allow the big potentially get bigger
here be as a function of that free cash
generation. What are you able to do?
Moat build, right? So it should not be
surprising to see a lot of the
acquisitions, the partnerships, all the
things that happen. Well, that's you can
do that when you have a lot of financial
flexibility. Tech bubble a little bit
less. You did have the companies doing
business with each other. source of the
revenues though was more IPO and
fundraising than it was traditional free
cash. A different setup.
>> This was a super sophisticated
conversation. So, forgive me for asking
the following question. Can we put a
price target on this? What's the price
target for next year?
>> Well, we we we're we're base case 6,900
for uh for for for mid for mid 26,
right? We haven't done our full year 26
numbers. We'll do that a little bit
later. like to get the three three Q
earnings behind. But, you know, we're
that's why we've been going down this
base bull and bear case. And it's a I
don't want to say it's a copout. It's
just it's recognizing that that there is
this different driver in place right
now. And and you know, we all kind of
get caught up on on being wary of of not
wanting to build too aggressive of a
valuation into our expectations.
>> Scott, super smart. It's good to see you
in person, too. Thanks for dropping by.
Thank you, sir. Scott Cronut there of
City. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Turkish president Reep Taib
Erdogan will make his first visit in six
years to the White House today. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the meeting
is expected to clear the path for Turkey
to buy US-made products like Loheed
Martin fighter jets, Boeing planes, and
liqufied natural gas worth more than $50
billion.
Meanwhile, copper is extending gains
after an accident in the world's second
biggest mine, Freeport McMaren, saying
it might not be able to meet its supply
contracts at its Grassburg mine in
Indonesia after a mud rush incident.
This as the global copper market already
faces supply disruptions and soaring
demand due to AI.
And we are seeing shares of CarMax fall
8.4% 4% in the pre-market after
reporting second quarter earnings that
came in well below analyst estimates.
The used car retailer reported earnings
per share of 64 cents, well below the
Bloomberg consensus estimates of $13.
Net sales and revenue also coming in
light, falling 6% year-over-year,
primarily driven by a 7.2% drop in used
car sales. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, supporting MLE's
Argentina.
>> It's very hard to believe that it is
different this time, but I believe with
President Malay, it is. We are not going
to let a disequilibrium in the market,
the cause
is a backup in his substantial economic
reform.
>> That conversation up next with Heidi
Prio Retica of the Council on Foreign
Relations live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Welcome back to the program. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 negative here by
0.3. We're down about 4/10 on the NASDAQ
near session lows now across the board
on the Russell. Small caps down by 0.39.
And the surface this morning looking
elsewhere supporting Mille's Argentina.
>> People are concerned. People are
skittish. It's very hard to believe that
it is different this time, but I believe
with President Malay, it is. We are not
going to let a disequilibrium in the
market be the cause his backup in his
substantial economic reforms. I don't
think the market has lost confidence in
him. So, here's the latest this morning.
The Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
reaffirming America's commitment to
supporting Argentine President Javier
Mille praising his tireless efforts to
make Argentina great again at a gala in
New York. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for the latest. Hey Tyler.
>> Hey John. Good morning. Well, this
potential 20 billion lifeline is seen as
much needed financial support from LA as
he seeks to regain investor confidence
and stem a run on his nation's currency
amid concerns with his own economic
agenda ahead of some key midterm
elections there next month. Now, the
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson does say
that the terms of this deal are still
being negotiated negotiated. But the
fact that this deal is being made at all
is effectively seen as the US propping
up a key ally of President Trump on the
world stage in a region where China has
made significant inroads, including in
neighboring Brazil, which we know isn't
on the best terms with this
administration as it faces that 50%
tariff. Though, President Trump does say
that he has plans to meet with the
Brazilian president Lula next week. I'll
also quickly point out that this really
does mark a shift for the administration
considering that President Trump
campaigned pretty pretty heavily uh
against financial interventions abroad,
but Argentina does appear to be that one
rare case. John, you mentioned it at the
top there, but the Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessant did tout Mille yesterday
during this gala here in New York City,
saying that he's laying the groundwork
for a golden age in Argentina. That of
course echoes what President Trump told
the United Nations General Assembly
earlier this week. But in terms of the
US being in a golden age,
>> Tyler, thank you. Tyler Kendall with the
latest. Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Heidi Kbo, Retica of the
Council on Foreign Relations. Heidi,
welcome back to the program. Just want
to build on some of the thoughts of
Scott Besson, the Treasury Secretary who
talked about supporting the economic
reforms of Argentina. Can we talk about
the regional politics? Why are the
reforms of Argentina so important to
this White House?
So I think that MLE has really made some
some tremendous progress with an economy
that has been a chronic um defaulter and
has had suffered with huge problems um
over the over many decades. So he's
brought inflation down beyond where
anybody really could have expected and
stabilized the currency. So I think
everybody was really hoping that the
reforms would actually take but Malay
lost uh lost support in a regional uh
election recently and there's an
upcoming election on the 26th of October
where if Malay loses support in this
nationwide midterm then he'll have a
very difficult time pushing his reforms
forward and the markets know that and so
he's faced a lot of instability in the
um in the past several days that last uh
last week they ran through about a
billion plus of their reserves just
defending the currency. And so I think
really the ambition is for this White
House to step in between now and October
26, give the markets short-term
stability in a in a whatever it takes
moment and put um I think the devil is
really in the details with the use of
the exchange stabilization fund because
that's actually tricky. It's tricky in
any circumstance, but you but you uh
Argentina is a very unique circumstance.
>> Well, also I sat down with the Treasury
Secretary in Argentina in April when he
was there to meet Mille and this wasn't
on a on the table then. And when he the
Treasury Secretary talks about it being
negotiated. The Treasury can't give a
swap line. Only the Federal Reserve
could and if it is going to be a loan,
then Argentina's Congress needs to vote
on it. So what exactly is the US willing
to do?
So I mean that's the that's the big
question and as you rightly point out
the Fed gives swap lines. The Treasury
does not and it does not use the
exchange stabilization fund for that
purpose. There are conversations if you
do use that 20 billionish of of liquid
assets that are um that are within the
ESF then you know the the US government
has a process to basically um price the
risk of the use of those funds. And
that's a conversation, this is a little
in the weeds, but that's a conversation
um with uh with OM. How do you price
this risk? And are we going to put this
on the table for Argentina? And how are
we actually going to do that? Um are we
going to make the same bet? I mean, this
echoes, you know, what Trump uh Trump
one did in supporting a massive IMF
program for Argentina back in 2018. and
the IMF lent 50 billion to Argentina and
took a big political risk and and sort
of lost that risk. And so the the
question is if we do this, how do we
structure to protect taxpayers? How do
we do it in a way that is useful for
Argentina without putting taxpayer uh
taxpayer funds on the line that it might
lose? And you know, and and and really
at the end of the day, h how can we do
this? the the swap line I think is just
terminology to make it simple for the
you know for the headline but this is
actually a very complicated um financial
engineering exercise that's going on.
>> Well, China has a swap line with
Argentina. Is this also the US maybe
countering China in South America?
>> Absolutely. I mean that's part of it.
Not only is this a relationship that I
think uh is is is real and substantial
between the Trump administration and and
Malay, but China has an 18 billion um
R&B swap line. And it's uh and it it
could be um you know it this this could
be wound down. Um I don't think that
they uh that China I think that the US
would really like to see itself be the
dominant player in providing any kind of
of support that Argentina needs.
Argentina also is is very resourceri
um and I think you know this would be
this would be a a strategic play as well
for the US in a um in a very strategic
part of the world Latin America where it
was pointed out we don't have a lot of
great relationships.
>> It's true. It's a good point, Heidi.
Thank you. Appreciate it as always.
Bremo, you know that region well and
you've seen that influence of China down
in South America.
>> It was shocking to see how much they
have really made inroads in places like
Peru, in places like Chile, in Brazil
for sure, as they try to lock down some
of those key minerals. And the question
is, what is the US going to do to
compete?
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Ozant of Deutsche Bank shrugging
off concerns of an AI bubble. Plus,
Danny has your morning movers. CarMax
falling short of street expectations.
That stock is down by almost 11%.
[Music]
Two-day losing streak on the S&P 500
about to become day three if we don't do
something about this. We're down by
about 0.3 on the S&P 500, negative by
0.4 on the Nasdaq. If you switch up the
board and get to the bond market, 2year,
10 year, and 30-year bond yields,
two-year yields this morning, high by
single basis point, 36144
up a single basis point on 10s to 41620.
In about an hour from now, another read
on the labor market, jobless claims at
8:30 Eastern time. That is just after an
important conversation we're having with
a key member of the FOMC, Governor
Myron, joining this program in about 45
minutes time. Look out for that in the
next hour. We're two hours to go until
the opening bow. Let's get you some
morning movers, some single names. Let's
cross over to Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. It continues to be the top
mover this morning and it is Intel
getting all the attention up 1.8%. Not
as big of a boost as it was just an hour
ago, but even so, trading this higher on
a report from us that they are in talks
with Apple about getting some funding
from them. They're also, this is early
stages, I should say, still trading off
of it. Nonetheless, the two are also
talking together and how they can work
more closely together. So, Intel shares
rising off the back of that. Also, in
the last hour, we got earnings from
CarMax, and they were tough. Both prices
and sales of used vehicles fell and
missed estimates. In fact, used car
sales fell by uh about 7%. The CEO
called it a challenging quarter, but
it's been a challenging year for CarMax.
Shares are down 30% year-to date. You
add some weight to that, down nearly 12%
in the pre-market. Finally, this is a
story that's been getting a lot of
attention and that is HSBC saying that
they have achieved a breakthrough in
using quantum computing in financial
markets. They did it with an IBM
processor. So, it looks like IBM rising
off the off the back of that up 3.2%.
But it allowed them to better predict
the price of bonds by more than 30%.
It's a key technology for the likes of a
IBM and this is a very clear and real
world use case for it. John,
>> very cool. I imagine we'll see much more
of that still to come. Danny, thanks for
that. On our radar this morning, one of
our top stories, the White House telling
federal agencies to prepare for mass
firings as the threat of a government
shutdown looms. President Trump
cancelling a meeting with Democrats,
calling their demands unrealistic.
Elsewhere, US Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson praising Argentina President
Javier Mille for his tireless efforts to
make his country great again. The
comments coming as the US moves to save
the nation from financial crisis. And
finally, the San Francisco Fed President
Mary Dailyaly suggesting further rate
cuts are likely needed to support the
labor market. But the Chicago Fed
President Austin Gby warning against a
series of cuts, seeing the jobs market
is quote, "mostly steady and solid."
Some division between those two.
>> Yeah. Although finding the division is
like combing through sand to try to find
hairs because uh Mayor Daly also said
that she doesn't see a weak labor
market. She just doesn't want to see it
weaken further. The reason why people
are so confused is because you have the
likes of the big tech companies coming
out reporting high earnings. You have
the likes of airlines coming out,
executives saying that there's a
reaceleration in purchases. And then you
have CarMax, used car prices going down,
people buying fewer cars. You have the
likes of Starbucks coming out this
morning having a restructuring plan as a
result of sluggish labor growth and this
lack of consumer demand. There are
confusing stories and Fed officials are
struggling with that,
>> which is why they're so divided. They
are divided over just where neutral is,
how restrictive we actually are, how
restrictive we should be. And to have
that conversation openly, you need to
agree on an end point, a start point.
None of them agree on where neutral is.
And I understand that, but ultimately
that's the source of a lot of the
debate, a lot of the division on the
FOMC and the dot plot.
>> Yeah. And I don't have a lot of uh
confidence in what exactly the reaction
function is to either a weaker uh jobs
print or potentially even a
reaceleration in inflation. One thing
that Mary Daly said is that recession
risk is very low talked about how she
doesn't want to see a worsening in the
labor market. But then Austin Goulsby
talking about inflation still remaining
above target for so many years. At what
point does that become a pre-minent
concern?
>> That Fed conversation continues in about
40 minutes time. Look out for that
conversation once again with Governor
Myron. Let's turn to tech. Following
weeks of massive investment
announcements, there are growing
rumblings of an AI bubble. Ozan Tman of
Deutsche Bank shrugging off concern
saying those crying the loudest are the
ones who miss the trade. Ozan joins us
now for more. Ozan, good morning and
welcome to New York.
>> Wonderful to be here.
>> It's always a bubble when you're not in
it. Is that the takeaway on this one?
Erh definitely there is a little bit of
bitterness defensiveness but that being
said maybe for this show uh right the
night before I held this big macro
dinner uh almost 30 clients friends
wealth funds h funds real money at the
question one session questioning the
bubble questioning that closed circle AI
to to Nidia to Oracle questioning where
we are in the labor cycle but then trade
idea session gold S&P gold S&P long EM
so even for me as somebody you know we
exchange messages you guys know it's
like being in the family I do believe in
the disparity it's been a great call
since uh the April 9 fear but to music
to Lisa's ears a bit this is a bit too
much I I sense a bit of a uh fly in the
soup even today like they talked up they
talked up how do we start again red
nothing major but red these memes flying
around on gold on AI don't get me wrong.
I think when I come back either from
London or here in December, I think
we'll still be talking positively about
gold, about AI, about NASDAQ, but uh
fear of missing out is turning into a
bit of orange sign.
>> Can we just build on this a little bit?
The relationship between risk and gold.
>> Mhm.
>> What the traditional relationship
typically is and and why it's developed
into something else? Why is this the
long call on both gold and the NASDAQ?
What's the relationship between the two
now?
>> Very good question. It's working on risk
on and risk off John. So obviously
orthodoxy at this moment it should work
because finally they're not exactly
going Steven's way but they are cutting
so that's going to help gold but before
that uh because of everything going on
in geopolitics Russia Ukraine central
banks feeling much better when they hold
their reserves in gold
it it got a big trigger besides that as
you know FX at the end of the day is
storytelling we need a dollar but we
need the other side of the story as well
even though I'm bank I share some of
your uh anxiety on what's going on in
Europe uh on England of Germany. We can
go into our deer island UK uh Japan,
China laggers. So where do you go? You
don't like the dollar for very
understandable reasons. Soft dollar is
working but you need somebody some horse
that keeps running and that's gold.
Well, this sort of goes to the question
of what could possibly disrupt these
trades and right now the feeling is that
the only thing that could really disrupt
some of the long tech trade would be
earnings that didn't come in more
positively. Do you see it the other way
that you think that actually more
negativity in the economic growth
picture has the bigger potential to be
that disruptive factor to cause the 3%
decline? I do actually because uh
November 19 even even if Nvidia
so-called misses we can find another
good story in another earnings but all
of a sudden you know how these markets
are narrative markets are storytelling
three more days like this Jonathan will
start opening will open the show a
little bit differently so
>> please tell us how he's going to open
the show
>> no he's he's going to talk about these
orange signs more and more also one
thing that I want to keep in the radar
because macro we need to talk about
rates as well supreme court these
tariffs talking about narratives all the
way from January to April terrorist was
the bad guy or you know he's going to do
this that light eizer 1930s and because
of that TY was going to go to 5% euro
was going to 0.95 all of a sudden now
tariffs are the good guys maybe he was
right on certain things revenue big
revenue generation
on Twitter my dear friend Torson's
talking about my research is talking
about it so if supreme court blocks this
that's off the left field I know and
Mary will maybe 301 they have their plan
B's etc. But that's going to take four
to five months and that can finally move
the long end.
>> I love how we don't even have to ask the
question so as already knows that we're
so interested. Exactly. Which I love. I
listen to you guys. This is Champions
League.
>> Okay. Fantastic. I will just say though
that this is one reason why people keep
buying big tech. And even though they're
worried about valuations, that's the one
area of growth that's kind of powered
really the US economy out of potentially
what could have been a recession
otherwise. Isn't that the only clean
trade right now given all the hair on
the narratives that you're talking
about? I
>> agreed with gold aside. Gold as well
works on risk on risk off. That's why
even look I'm a macro guy. Even if we
have a when when I pull people and they
all go for higher the lower end of that
was 3%. If we get for this or that
reason 3% correction on on S&P, my binky
will probably come out on the show and
say buy the dip as important as binky
retail who want this way or another beat
the professionals since April 9 that big
panic day on buying those dips will
continue to believe. So that even my
scenario of Supreme Court stopping the
tariffs etc. We need something else. We
need more deepseek moments. We need to
question all this closed circle between
open AIS and Oracles and Nvidia. I'm not
sure we're there. Maybe two two three%
correction, but doomsday I don't see.
>> But the Supreme Court stopping the
tariffs, won't that be bullish for
equities?
>> Uh I hear you. At the end of the day,
they will say look uh then they'll have
to do more fiscal even more fiscal
loosening you know equities may find a
way to see that as glass helpful as
well. Uh that risk would be the bigger
trigger for the long end. We came into
summer, end of summer, waiting for these
famous trust moments everywhere. Uh, UK,
France, Japan, of course, US, big,
beautiful bill. It happened for 4 hours
on September 2 led by my island. And
then look what the long ends are doing
now. So steepener crowd, do you hear
them now? Much more quiet on these
studios on the, you know, on the Mac
dinner roundts. Maybe they're waiting
for for something new and that can be
that can be their catalyst. the US when
you have these dinners and you're
talking to investors as you say real
money are they concerned about what
we're seeing out of the US government
and taking stakes and then basically
companies maybe wanting to have a better
reputation with this administration
considering even investing in those
companies the US government cares about
>> very good question I completely hear you
Intel Apple right
they do so because of that maybe we have
a world in which Nvidia keep rising but
dollar also keeps uh eroding a little
bit. So in that sense it's not exactly a
teter rean world is it? So for many
different reasons uh this institutional
decay difference approach to to us
seeing more how do I put it Hungary,
Turkey, Argentina like developments in
Treasury, central bank working together
in in our USA as well. Uh that makes
people hedge more the important hedge
ratios. My partner in success George
Feros I think a very important piece
everybody was questioning okay Ozan you
guys are saying sell the dollar but you
know if N media Microsoft meta keeps
going higher that has to help the king
Kong dollar well no if they are hedging
what if they're hedging when they buy
their Nidia maybe we can have this
equilibrium in which dollar remains soft
and Nvidia continues to go higher
>> just a final question what's the
difference between appetite to take risk
right now comparing the investors you've
dined with this week in New York to what
you experience on a weekly basis in
London.
>> Beautiful question. Much more US-
centered. Doesn't care that much about
uh you know France worries Germany when
that stimulus coming etc. I would say
still almost sucked into the equity and
credit trade. Look at Oracle yesterday.
Three basis points. Three basis point
concession. That's it. So whether they
like it or not, they almost get sucked
into the whether I give the orange signs
or no into equity and credit much more
quiet money on the rates and effects.
Unfortunately, I'm macro guy. I need to
talk up volatility, but the trade at the
moment is volatility is uh is on it is
on its knees and they need we need some
supplies otherwise FX and race traders
continue to sell those treddles.
>> Dare I say things are quiet compared to
the rest of this year so far at least.
Ozan, it's good to see you. I love being
here.
>> We'll catch up again soon no doubt. Aant
there of Deutsche Bank. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahara for more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. The FBI says the deadly
shooting at a Dallas ICE facility was
targeted. One detainee was killed and
two others were critically injured. The
shooter died of a self-inflicted gun
wound and no law enforcement officers
were hurt. It's the second attack at a
Dallas area facility of ICE in recent
months as the Trump administration ramps
up mass deportations.
Meanwhile, Starbucks announcing that it
plans to close a number of stores and
eliminate 900 jobs. Starbucks announced
that the closures will focus on stores
that have underperformed with the
company poised to focus on making its
open locations more inviting to visit.
The move comes amid a $1 billion
restructuring effort undertaken by CEO
Brian Nickel. Shares are slightly in the
red. And in sports, New York Yankees
superstar Aaron Judge made history by
becoming just the fourth player in
history to reach the 50 home run mark in
four separate seasons. Judge hit both
his 50th and 51st of the season against
the White Socks. Judge is second in the
American League this season behind
Mariners catcher Cal Raleigh who became
the first ever catcher to hit 60 in a
season. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. You just
have to look to the one side.
>> I'm so excited for him
>> with the merch and everything.
>> Mark Maguire, Babe Ruth, Sammy Sosa.
It's an incredible list.
>> Okay, good stuff. All right, cheers to
you. Yeah. Up next on the program, a
divided Federal Reserve.
Now, my own view is that further policy
adjustments are likely. Will they come
right now, this year, or or going
forward? It's hard to say.
>> Matt Horn backach of Morgan Stanley
joins us in just a moment live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Live from New York, welcome to the
program. Under surveillance this
morning, a divided Federal Reserve.
Now, my own view is that further policy
adjustments are likely. Will they come
right now, this year, or or going
forward? It's hard to say. But what's
really important is that making those
policy adjustments will likely be
required to balance both of our goals.
Keep pressure on inflation to bring it
to price stability and offer support to
the labor market to ensure that it stays
near full employment. So here's the
latest this morning. Fed officials
offering more insight into the division
of the FOMC. San Francisco Fed President
Mary Daly saying additional rate cuts
are likely needed. The Chicago Fed
President Austin Gorby telling the
Financial Times he's not comfortable
front-loading cuts on transitory
inflation arguments. Matt Hornbach of
Morgan Stanley joins us now for more.
Matt, good morning sir.
>> Good morning. It's great to be here.
>> It's good to see you. You put in your
note and I think this is important
within the dot plot. Embedded in that is
an important debate about where neutral
is. Can you build on some of that?
>> Absolutely. I mean when you look at the
dot plot it's very clear that in 2025
there are two camps and this division
has been pretty clear in all of the dot
plots so far this year. Um what becomes
a little bit more murky is when you go
beyond the 2025 dots what what happens
to these camps and I think you can
divide these two camps into a camp that
believes that neutral rates are higher
and a camp that believes that neutral
rates are lower. And it's interesting,
they both agree that policy should be
moving back towards neutral and they
almost agree on the time frame over
which policy should move back to
neutral. They just seem to disagree on
where neutral is. So I think what's
interesting is the speech by Governor
Myron this week was talking about this
concept of our star being lower. I wrote
about this last Friday. I did not know
that Governor Myin was going to give a
speech on RSTAR, but I wrote about this
last Friday, which is maybe why I'm on
the show today. Uh, but what I was
talking about is a concept that was
actually offered up by our chief US
economist, Michael Gapen. um who was
talking about the changes in uh labor
force growth and how those changes in
labor force growth over the past couple
of years have probably been in a very
important driver of potential growth and
then there's this natural link between
potential growth of the economy and
equilibrium interest rates. So, one of
the mo more interesting things that has
come out of John Williams and his and
his group previously at the San
Francisco Fed and now at the New York
Fed is a model that tries to estimate
where these things are. Where is
potential growth for the economy and
where is the equilibrium interest rate?
Prior to the great financial crisis,
both of these model estimates
were the same thing. They moved in the
same direction at the same time. And so
if you believe as many people do today
that we are beyond the secular
stagnation period for the US economy
then you must believe that as potential
growth slows
our star or equilibrium interest rates
also go down and that's kind of the
point that I was making in my note.
>> So Governor Myron is in the mid twos.
Where are you and the team? So, Michael
Gapen and team believe that RSTAR is
likely falling. Uh, they're not at the
3% that the median FOMC participant
currently finds themselves. Uh, not
speaking for Mike, but I I would guess
that he's going to be somewhere in the
mid-2s on on our star. So, not
dramatically lower, probably not as as
low as Governor Myin is. Uh, but you
know, that's where I think he's he's
probably going to be.
>> If that's true, why haven't rates where
they are torpedoed the economy?
>> Why haven't rates torpedoed the economy?
Well, okay, let's talk about how we
measure change in the economy. You
typically people look at this in
year-over-year terms. So, let's talk
about inflation. Inflation at 2.8, 2.9,
3% core PCE on a year-over-year basis.
That's where inflation has been over the
past year. But what about the next year,
right? We think inflation is going to
continue to move lower once we get past
this little bump related to tariffs.
Same thing for growth, Letha. I mean, we
have real growth in the economy in the
mid-2s, but next year we think it will
be in the mid1s. So, policy is
restrictive on our estimation. And as
the Fed gradually lowers interest rates
on our forecast, they're really just
going to be keeping up with the decline
in our star, we don't see them taking
policy into accommodative territory.
>> So if that's the case, you potentially
think that there is a greater risk of
recession or economic downturn than the
market is accounting for based on where
rates have been given how long they
would have been quite restrictive. Is
that correct?
>> Absolutely. I mean the uh recessions in
the US don't occur that often clearly
and we haven't had a normal recession
since before the great financial crisis.
I mean you could even argue that in 2001
that wasn't really a normal recession.
Uh but the risks are rising because the
labor market and potential growth have
slowed so dramatically over the past six
months. If this is true, then wouldn't
it be not a once in a-lifetime but a
very good opportunity to buy the long
end of the yield curve if you do believe
that neutral is so substantially below
where people currently believe?
>> Absolutely. At a 2.5% 30-year real
yield, there's a tremendous amount of
value and and it's been there for some
time. So, it's not as if this is a new
development. 30-year real yields have
been in the mid-2s. Sometimes they're
high twos, sometimes they're mid twos,
but they've been generally in that zone
for quite some time. That's fantastic
value. You know, investors, long-term
investors who have been buying 30-year
tips are probably sitting very, very
well today. When you look at what
Governor Myron is saying about the
policies that the Trump administration
has, which basically means that there
should be lower interest rates, are they
also basically then acknowledging that
those policies might mean slower growth?
>> Well, I I think there's a a difference
between, you know, what's happening with
the potential growth rate of the economy
and then how the economy is actually
growing from from one year to the next.
In some sense, that's how I would
interpret it. that if potential growth
is low is going coming down, equilibrium
interest rates should also come down,
you know. So, kind of how are you how
are you wanting to frame the argument?
If the argument is, hey, we think that
these policies are bad for growth and
therefore the economy needs lower
interest rates. That's one framing
clearly. Uh another framing is the
potential of the economy is just slowing
and it's not recessionary potential but
it if the potential growth rate of the
economy is slowing then the economy
simply requires lower interest rates.
It's not it's not a let's sound the
emergency alarm. Let's just adjust
interest rate policy to accommodate an
economy that is growing a little bit
slower on a potential basis.
>> Got about 45 seconds left. just wanted
to squeeze in the FX call. What does
this all mean for the US dollar?
>> Absolutely. We we think the dollar is
going lower, John. We've thought the
dollar was going lower earlier this
year. We continue to believe the dollar
is going lower. In general, we we see it
as a a a broader trade than just Euro
dollar. We think the dollar is going
down against the euro, against the yen,
against the Australian dollar. We we see
it as more of a broad-based move. And
it's ultimately because we think that
real yields in the US are going to
continue to decline and against gold as
well based on a conversation we had a
little bit earlier.
>> Yeah. I just keep thinking about what
this means for the two economies that we
were talking about with Scott Croner.
The idea that the economy is not the
tech bubble that could be still
continuing to emerge and could get
fueled. It's a fascinating moment right
now.
>> Yeah. And for the market versus the
economy too which seem to be on two
different planets at the moment. Matt,
it's good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Matt Horn back there of Morgan Stanley.
Coming up next, Brent Shy of
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance, Fed
Governor, Steven Myron, Nila Richardson
of ADP, Chris Heisy of Bank of America.
The third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around a corner
[Music]
clients are in the market. They're
invested. They're happy because markets
are at all-time high.
>> The key driver of this bull market has
been AI and tech.
>> Everyone who announces plans to spend is
rewarded.
>> The AI investment, I think, is just
starting to scratch the surface.
>> It's when founders and disruptors show
up at the same time and they collide and
they change the landscape, right? And I
think that's a moment that we're in.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. And good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Olympic surveillance starts right now 90
minutes away from the cash open. The
opening bow just around a corner. The
scores look like this. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 lower by 0.4%. Session lows
on the NASDAQ down by 0.6. Likewise on
the Russell down by 3/4 to 1%. In the
bond market 2-year, 10year, 30-year bond
yields just a little bit higher by a
single basis point. 29 minutes away from
this data right here. Jobless claims up
next.
>> Yeah, a question of just how powerful or
not the engine of the US labor market
actually is. If we get a down week in
terms of the S&P performance, that would
be the first down week going back to
August, even at a time when we're
talking about some sort of deterioration
in the labor market picture. Right now,
the key question is it keeps being are
people underweaiting the risk of a
downturn in growth or are they
underweaiting the risk of potentially a
reaceleration that could potentially
fuel the rally even further.
>> We'll speak to the man of the hour a
little bit later this hour. We'll catch
up with Governor Myron of the FOMC and
he's got his own thoughts on the biggest
risk going into 26. He believes that if
you keep rates where they are right now,
you're risking some real downside risk.
>> And he really wants the Fed to
recalibrate where we are right now in
economy, especially with the policies
from the Trump administration. Lower
immigration, less government borrowing,
lower regulation. He thinks it is way
too restrictive right now. The issue is
can he bring the Fed officials along
with him because right now there are
number like Austin Goulsby who are still
concerned about what tariffs may do to
higher prices and inflation.
>> Yeah, there's two different questions,
Amber. One is how persuasive that
argument is on the committee right now.
The other is how credible it is with the
market participants, investors, and
markets more broadly.
>> Right now, it has been fairly credible
the idea of rate cuts hasn't led to a
complete unmuring of the long end of the
yield curve because encouraged people to
buy gold, but that's another story. But
there is this feeling that this is a
difficult economy to understand and get
your arms around. On one hand, people
are feeling not great. They aren't
worried about getting jobs. They
experience the inflation in real time.
the dual mandate of the Fed very much in
conflict. But people have talked about
the idea that this economy would have
been recession if it hadn't been for
tech spending. And that overlay is
confusing things and that is the reason
why people are saying the markets and
the economy kind of are looking very,
very different right now. I'm so happy
you keep bringing up this Deutsche Bank
note because today in the front page of
the Financial Times, they're talking
about the vacuum, the hole that's being
filled with Elon Musk leaving the White
House and the likes of Sam Ultman and
Mark Zuckerberg trying to fill that
hole. And an insider said this to the
FT, an insider for the Trump
administration. If you took AI
investment out of the economy, we'd
probably be in really, really bad shape.
That's what this is, a marriage of
convenience.
>> Futures right now in the S&P, if you're
just joining us, down by 0.4%. The open
and bout just around the corner. The
next hour shaping up as follows. Brent
Shudy of Northwestern Mutual as the
record run for stocks calls off. Federal
Reserve Governor Steven Murin as he
makes his case for more aggressive rate
cuts. and Nila Richardson of ADP as we
break down the latest jobs data. We
begin this hour with stocks stabilizing
after pulling back from record highs.
Brent Shy of Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance writing Wall Street might not
want to break out the champagne just
yet. The labor market continues to do
just the opposite. Brent joins us now
for more. Brent, welcome to the program.
In just a moment, we'll catch up with
Governor Myron. He's very concerned
about what's happening or could happen
with the labor market. That
conversation's happening at the same
time. The credit spreads are super tight
and the S&P 500 is within 1% of all-time
highs. Is that a tension that needs to
be reconciled?
>> Absolutely. So, so to me, you spent the
entire morning talking about the tales.
And so, for one of the few times in my
career you could convince me that a
recession is on the way, something
you've talked about, you've seen the
labor market weaken. We're expecting
43,000 jobs next month. Uh which is not
enough to replace uh you know the
current new people entering the labor
market. At the same time, core inflation
is going to run at 2.9% which makes the
reality that it's been between 2.6 and
3.1 for the past 21 months. And so this
is where the oddity is. Those tales are
larger. Yet the market and credit
spreads and everything else, the thing
in the middle kind of where everything
turns out just right are still tight.
And that's where I think there's quite a
bit of a debate about what happens next.
>> Brent, you've been worried about
inflation taking off next and perhaps
that story is still to be wanted to be
developed and that maybe we're moving on
a little bit too fast. Brent, do you
think that inflation story could
constrain the Fed's easing bias?
>> Absolutely. We've always said the last
mile on inflation would be hard after we
came down from the supply constraints of
CO. And that's where that 2.9% and not
being at their target of 2% since 2021
is a reality. Where do we go from here?
Do they cut now and risk that inflation
side of the equation? Or do they cut um
because of the labor market? And that's
where I think there's so much
uncertainty that's out there. And maybe
just to kind of pile on to the economy
is not the markets. I think it is.
You've had the AI story hold up the
economy. And the AI story has held up a
very very narrow rally in the S&P 500
for the last couple of years. It's held
up a very narrow rally in that S&P 500
against small caps and midcaps. And
that's where I don't think we can
continue like this. We need the market
to broaden back out because we need the
economy to broaden back out because what
happens if all that AI spending slows?
>> We are seeing it broaden out though,
Brad. When you look at, for example, the
uh other 493 in the S&P 500 and the
earning projections, the earning
expectations for next year. At a certain
point, if the Fed is going to let
inflation run hot, isn't that beneficial
for stocks on some level?
>> Yes. Uh and so to me, this is where you
have optionality. To me, if you do have
a recession, I think rates are going
lower, that will help those parts of the
economy that have kind of been in a
recession-like uh place for the last
couple of years, and that'll help those
parts in the market. At the same time,
if we do have inflation that runs away
because economic growth does revive, I
think that helps those parts of the
market also. And that's where you look
at relative valuations right now in a
very expensive market where you see
small and midcap at relative valuations
they haven't seen since 1999 which was
an incredibly similar time period where
you had the internet and Y2K spending
holding up the US economy and also being
reflected in a very narrow market and
that's where I think if you look at the
the next few years it didn't broaden
back out the equated S&P 500 did well
midcaps and small caps did well and even
if you look at the past 25 years midcaps
and small caps have outperformed large
caps even with large caps doing well the
past you five, six years. And that's
where I want investors to focus on
planting those seeds today that you can
harvest later because I do think
valuation matters uh especially in an
S&P 500 that it's at the second highest
cape ratio in the last 150 160 years.
The one fear that a lot of people keep
raising is that this is a different
moment in terms of the technological sea
change that's happening and how much
this could actually drive a number of
smaller and midsize companies into
obsolescence especially as large
companies have the capital to invest to
create those moes around themselves and
to adapt to some of the changes more
quickly. At what point is there a
different paradigm for smaller companies
that don't have the same agility, that
don't have the same balance sheets as
larger ones, facing into what is a
pretty transformative moment.
>> This to me reminds me of the narratives
that Wall Street makes up at different
points in my career. And so I heard a
lot of the same things back in 1999 and
I actually worked at a bank and if you
recall there were going to be no bank
branches any longer because the internet
uh was going to make those obsolescent
and that's where I think if you look
today there are still bank branches and
so the answer is probably somewhere in
between. uh and that's where I think AI
becomes of benefit now not just to the
companies who are implementing it right
now and laying the train tracks but to
those who actually use it to increase
their margins at a time when margins are
being squeezed which I think it becomes
more of a whole society thing pushing
forward and that's why I would encourage
people to kind of take those narratives
with a bit of a grain of salt because
I've heard all the different ones over
the last uh hundred some years not me
100 years but you've had those and and
that's why you mentioned the commentary
this time is different and and that
still makes me scared in just a bit of a
way
>> Bren certainly You don't look that old.
Don't worry about it. Brent, in about 7
minutes time, we're going to catch up
with Governor Myron of the Federal
Reserve. He made a big splash in his
first meeting at the Federal Reserve,
pushing for a 50 basis point rate
reduction. What do you make of his
argument? How persuasive do you find it?
And Bren, ultimately, what would you
like to know in the next few minutes?
Yeah, I mean to me this is where I just
think the current situation is so odd
that you have all these different
economists who haven't seen tariffs like
this for 90 years. So they don't have
much history to go upon where there's
such a a broad variety of opinions. Um
that's where I I think it's so odd and
so uh interesting of a time period and
that's where I'll bring it back to
something from an investing standpoint.
There are myriad outcomes that could
occur. You could have higher inflation
uh certainly as something you could also
have uh a recession. I don't think
there's much area in between and that's
where to me you come back to
diversification and diver and investing
in that manner. I I think it's
interesting to to hear his comments on
where the neutral rate is and maybe just
to push a little bit harder on that
because he seems to be at quite a bit of
a lower level than what most of the
other Fed members are.
>> He certainly has a different view.
Brent, thank you sir. Appreciate it.
Brent Shy there of Northwestern Mutual
Life Insurance. Looking forward to that
conversation in about 5 minutes time.
>> Yeah. How much does he really understand
neutral as something closer to 2% and
what that actually means for how quickly
a race can get cut? And frankly, I'm
just fascinated, but Morgan Stanley is
kind of on the same page as he is.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's not as though he's a complete
outlier when it comes to rejiggering a
concept around neutral.
>> What happens if he's right? We talked
about that last week. What if he is
right? What would that mean for this
market? Already very close to alltime
highs and credit spreads at multi-deade
tights.
>> Yeah. It means basically to the moon,
right? I mean, in terms of valuations,
the real question that I have is what
does this do for inflation? And why has
the market why has the economy not
completely fallen out of bed if we were
this restrictive for this long?
>> I've got the very same question in front
of me, too. I think we all have the same
one with regards to that. Equity futures
right now in the S&P 500 negative by
about a third of 1%. With an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, here's Yahara Arland.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Former French President
Nicolas Sarcoi has been convicted of
crim criminal conspiracy. Paris judges
made the ruling over allegations his
2007 winning campaign was covertly
funded by the regime of late Libyan
leader Moamar Gaddafi. Sarosi is
expected to serve a 5-year jail sentence
even if he appeals.
Meanwhile, Disney is preparing for a
legal battle with President Trump after
it put Jimmy Kimmel back on the air. The
Trump administration has threatened to
revoke the broadcast licenses of
Disney's local stations. Disney's
leadership has consulted legal experts
and says it is confident it will win any
case. And Oracle launched an $18 billion
US investment grade bond sale. The
market's second largest deal this year.
The debt raise comes as Oracle begins to
fulfill massive cloud infrastructure
deals with customers like OpenAI and
Meta. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the tech giant issued the debt
in six parts including a rare 40-year
bond. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Some real demand at
that offering yesterday afternoon. Up
next on the program, Federal Reserve
Governor Steven as he makes his case for
more aggressive rate cuts. That
conversation is just around the corner.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[Music]
Overall for equities, we've been
modestly underweight. It has been a
brutal year to be modestly underweight
equities. But this is the deal. This is
the issue we're dealing with is that
this market is priced for perfection in
a far from perfect world. There are
going to be risks into next year. Next
year is going to be a tougher year than
the markets are pricing in. That was
Matt Miskin of John Hancock on this
market. Your market right now just a
little bit softer going into the opening
bout. Heading into the opening bout,
let's turn to the Federal Reserve. the
newest Federal Reserve Governor Steven
Myron making the case for aggressively
lowering interest rates to avoid
damaging the economy diverging from some
other FOMC members. I'm pleased to say
that joining us this morning live from
the Federal Reserve is Governor Marin
himself. Governor, welcome to the
program, sir. We've got tons of time to
talk about what's going to happen next,
your thoughts on the labor market, the
balance of risk, the broader economy. I
actually wanted to lead the conversation
with this one. Governor, what was your
experience like? I'm sure this was
unexpected 12 months ago. What was it
like walking into the room and was it
different to what you expected?
>> Good morning and and thanks for having
me. It's great to see you again. Uh
look, you know, walking into the room,
uh you know, I had had a a a good
briefing ahead of time about what the
meeting would what the meeting would be
like. And so that was very helpful. But
I will say that everyone was extremely
friendly and welcoming and kind and
collegial and I really appreciated that.
and and you know it's important to
understand that the FOMC is a body the
Federal Open Market Committee is a body
that makes decisions uh by uh arguing on
the merits of the economics and the
economics and the merits of of policy
and uh and that's how it was and
everyone was very collegial in earing
their views and uh and and I the same
and that's how it'll continue to be you
know we make policy as the chairman said
last week by persuasion and so I will
continue to try to lay out my views and
and make the case as best as I can
>> governor I essentially got the
opportunity to articulate your argument.
Just how much daylight did you sense was
there was between you and everyone else
on the committee?
>> Well, I mean, you know, it's sort of
funny if you look at the the dots in the
summary of economic projections. You
know, obviously there's a divergence
between my uh my projection for
appropriate policy for 2025 uh versus
where the weight of of everyone else's
is. But if you look at next year and the
year after, you know, I'm sure I'm still
on the low end. Uh but uh you know, the
the there's not really that much
daylight between all the rest of the
dots and myself and following year. So
it's really just about the speed with
which we come down to what's closer to
neutral.
>> Well, let's get into the neutral
argument. I think that's what separates
you from a lot of people. So you've got
it in the mid-2s, Governor, and you
think we should get there quickly. Can
you just build out why you believe
that's the case and why we should get
there so fast?
>> Sure. So look, you know, I discussed a
number of forces which have kicked in
over the course of this year and which
are, I think, in stark contrast to where
they were last year. So I've argued that
neutral was higher in the past than it
is now. and that that neutral was higher
for a variety of reasons. But I've
highlighted recently uh fiscal policy,
you know, sort of driving up net
national borrowing, uh decreasing net
national savings, as well as immigration
policy driving what was the biggest
positive population growth shock in my
lifetime and has now turned into the
biggest negative population growth shock
in my lifetime in very rapid succession
uh relative to to how changes in
population growth, you know, normally
normally occur in in the data. And so to
me, when you have huge swings in net
national savings uh driven by fiscal
policy and you have huge swings in
population growth driven by changes to
border policy, it would be bizarre for
me to think that that wouldn't have
implications uh for the fundamental
structure of the economy that gets
reflected through for for monetary
policy in the neutral rate. So my view
is that neutral was higher last year
because of these reasons. And so last
year policy was not as tight as a lot of
people believed and now neutral has come
down or is in the process of coming down
and now neutral and now policy is more
tight than people believe. And this is
this has happened recently. You know
these these policies didn't change you
know sort of overnight. They've been
kicking in over the course of the year.
And uh and that means that policy is is
is becoming tighter uh every day uh as
these policies continue to kick in. And
my view is not one of enormous economic
pessimism. You know, I don't think the
economy is about to crater. I don't
think the labor market's about to fall
off a cliff. However, the neutral rate
is drifting down. And as a result of
that, it's incumbent upon policy to
adjust in response. And the longer that
policy stays excess excessively
restrictive, the greater the risks to
the downside for the economy. If policy
stays excessively restrictive for too
long, then you do get to in a situation
in which you have a meaningful a
meaningful increase in unemployment rate
and and a and a and a failure of of of
the employment mandate.
>> So, Governor, that's the tension, I
think, in your view. that's worth
exploring just a little bit more. On the
one hand, you don't think the economy is
at risk of breaking down, but you also
think we are excessively tight at the
moment and getting tighter. There are
some people who would say, and we've had
this conversation around the table this
morning, if we were as tight as you're
suggesting, why is the market within 1%
of record highs? Why are credit spreads
super tight? And why is this economy
still doing okay?
>> Yeah. So, that's a perfectly natural
thing to ask. Sorry. And and let me say
let me say two things. one um I don't
think that uh all financial conditions
are are universally loose like that. In
particular, if you look at the housing
market, I think it's in quite a
different state than uh you know sort of
some financial markets and and you know
sort of security markets. Um so I don't
I don't think that that's necessarily a
holistic look at the world of financial
conditions in the economy. But even that
aside, I think that uh you know people
in financial markets tend to focus a lot
on monetary policy because interest
rates are you know sort of huge tradable
instruments, right? But there's so much
more that goes into determining economic
growth and the state of the economy and
inflation and and employment than
monetary policy. And I think that
attributing all changes in financial
assets to monetary policy can be a
mistake. And in particular, that's what
I tried to do in my in in my speech uh
you know was was to draw out some of
these some of these effects from
non-monetary policies that are affecting
the economy and of course therefore also
uh financial markets. And so if you have
changes in tax policy, right, like
significant incentives for investing
that lower the effective tax rate on
capital, of course that's going to get
reflected into capital assets. If you
have significant changes to the
regulatory environment where you're
removing barriers to operations that
companies can make more uh more cheaply,
which by the way is is disinflationary
and pushes out the output gap, then of
course that's also going to be reflected
in asset markets. So, I think it's a
mistake to conflate uh the state of
financial conditions with monetary
policy. They're connected. They're
related. They affect each other, but
they're not exactly the same thing. And
in the speech, I go line by line through
these different items. And the reason
why monetary policy doesn't have to
react to the hawkish side in response to
these activity changes is because they
push out the supply side of the economy
at the same time that they push out
demand. And so, if you're increasing
supply and demand at the same time,
there's no change to the output gap. And
of course, it's monetary's policy job at
the end of the day to be balancing uh
the output gap, to be balancing
aggregate supply and aggregate demand in
the economy so it doesn't overheat or or
underheat.
>> I think there are a lot of people,
Governor Myron, who would agree with you
that probably the neutral rate is quite
a bit below where we are now. You said
even the other Fed governors did seem to
agree with that, but not necessarily the
speed. And I'm still unclear. Why do you
think it is so important to get rates
down by 125 or 150 bas 150 basis points
more this year if inflation is still
running hot and you're not seeing
anything alarming in the underlying
economy?
>> Yeah. So this year is merely a function
of where the calendar is. So my my view
is that policy is quite restrictive and
so I'd like to adjust quickly to get
back to a more neutral area. Right. That
just means a series of 50s until you get
until you get much closer to zero. The
fact that it's this year is just just a
function just a function of the
calendar. But again, it comes back to
the longer that you stay restrictive,
the greater the risks. And let me put it
this way, like it was just a few years
ago that we were having endless
conversations about declining population
growth rates and the whole world
becoming Japan in terms of interest rate
profiles, right? Those forces are still
real. Those dynamics are still real.
They didn't go away. those channels, you
know, the those channels by which
population growth affects neutral rates
didn't disappear. I would rather react.
I would rather act proactively, right?
And sort of we know that we just had the
biggest population growth shocks in many
people's lifetimes, mine included,
right? I would we know what the
consequences of those are economically.
I would rather act proactively and lower
rates as a result ahead of time rather
than wait for some, you know, giant
catastrophe to occur because you
suddenly wake up and and find out that
you you are sort of resuming those
dynamics. In my mind, if you wait to
sort of to see the result of that, you
will have waited too long and there will
be there will have been a a potentially
quite material uh downside r downside
miss to the employment mandate. A lot of
people on this show have been wondering
what the reaction mechanism is going to
be for a Federal Reserve. This does
start to see inflation as transitory
once again. The idea that we have been
above 2% the 2% target for the Federal
Reserve for 53 consecutive months for
more than four years. If there is an
upsurge in inflation, how long are you
willing to look through that if you are
cutting rates before you say, "Hold on a
second, maybe we need to stop."
>> Yeah. So I would want to understand why
there was an upsurge in inflation and
what was driving it and then sort of
think about whether that shock is likely
to be persistent or whether the shock is
likely to be transitory and it's the
nature it's the nature of the shock.
It's not just is inflation higher for a
certain number of months. It's why is it
higher or why is it lower and how long
are those and how long are those shocks
likely to persist. And if you have a
situation in which inflation is much
higher because there's, you know, sort
of, let's say, a very significant
expansion in national borrowing that
drives up demand, uh, could be driven by
fiscal, could be driven by something
else, that might be the type of thing
that you would expect to be to be more
persistent. In my mind, if you have the
type of shock that's driven by a, you
know, basically one-off change to tax
rates, right, whether that's a VA that
VAT tax or tariffs or anything else, um,
you know, that in my mind is not the
type of chalk that would lead you to
think that inflation is going to is
going to be sticky for a long period of
time. And in fact, there's, you know,
most central banks around the world, I
think actually all of them would sort
of, you know, encounter this in a much
more direct manner through changes in
value added taxes. And they always look
through them. You know, they always say,
"Okay, look, the VAT went up or the VAT
went down and uh that's going to affect
the inflation statistics for a period of
time." But then we all know that this
was basically a fiscally mandated price
change. And monetary policy shouldn't
respond necessarily to fiscally mandated
price changes because that's not
indicative of changes to the underlying
supply demand balance in the economy,
which ultimately drives uh the type of
persistent inflation that the central
bank cares about.
>> Governor Martin, I'd love to get your
thoughts a little bit more deeper on
housing. This something Matt Misk and
Neil Duta have talked a lot on this
program about going into next year. Do
you think the housing market will weigh
on a deceleration of inflation? Is is
that part of your thesis on inflation
coming down?
>> Yeah, I mean it explicitly is. I mean,
look, you know, supply and demand
dominates all things economically,
right? And if you're increasing the
demand for housing by dramatically
increasing population growth uh without
a material increase in the supply of
housing at the same time, of course you
are going to get upward pressure on
shelter inflation. And then vice versa,
if you start decreasing population
growth because of a change in border
policies without destroying uh shelter
supply or if shelter supply keeps on
expanding at at a rate that it has been
in previous years, then you get a a a
relative change in shelter inflation uh
once again. So it's just it's it's it's
simple, you know, it's simple supply and
demand. If we have a a material downward
population shock because we have
negative net migration, um that's a net
increase in the supply of shelter. And I
think that the study that I cited in the
speech on Monday, work by Albert Sees
found that uh elicity of one basically
that a 1% increase in the in the in the
number of immigrant renters leads to a 1
percentage point change in the rents.
>> Right? But immigration is short-term,
right? This is a short-term story. Would
you be willing to revise up neutral if
immigration is not much of a drag?
>> Uh well, I mean, you know, I I have good
reason for expecting that the
immigration story is going to persist at
least for another three and a half
years. Um and uh I think quite likely
potentially after that also. So, I'm not
convinced that immigration is really a
short-term story.
>> Governor, just before you go, because I
know you've got to run, have you got a
taste for this, is this a position you'd
like to keep beyond the end of this
year?
Look, you know, I I I love this country
and I'm I'm happy to serve this country
in any way that I'm asked to do so. Uh
but personnel decisions are not
decisions that I make.
>> Governor Marin, appreciate your time.
Diplomatic end. Thank you, sir. Thank
you very much. Governor Marin from the
Federal Reserve are the next views from
the Fed and his argument very much lower
neutral rate.
>> Yeah. And the key issue here in terms of
how much daylight there is between him
and the other Fed members is the speed.
and he's saying that recently he saw a
real turn and you might as well get
ahead of that especially with a very
different backdrop. Also really
interesting what he said about some of
the other inputs to asset pricing and
how that doesn't necessarily have to do
with Fed uh rates kind of agreeing with
some of our previous guests talking
about how it's been a Fed independent
equity market in particular.
>> The question you ended on is the one I
was thinking about the entire time. Is
this going to be a governor just till
January or is he going to be someone
that the Trump administration decides we
are going to keep him in that spot? And
I think this is becoming very political
in Washington obviously because he's
still keeping his he has a leave of
absence right now from CEA. So one foot
kind of still in the White House. Um but
if he continues going on this and trying
to change the thinking of the Fed, this
is really going to be the future. The
Treasury Secretary said he wants more of
a Greenspanled Fed, forward thinking,
not data dependent. In just a moment,
we're going to get jobless claims at
about 8:30 Eastern time. Mike McKe's
been tracking a conversation we've been
having around the Federal Reserve. Mike,
the labor market, if you look at jobless
claims, I don't know what the numbers
about to be in 2 minutes time, but
jobless claims so far look okay, don't
they?
They do. And that's part of the story
that J. Pal and the rest of the Fed have
been telling that we're in this unusual
situation where we're not hiring people,
but we're not firing people either. And
the question is which direction do you
go and how fast do you get there? Uh the
whole question with Stephen Meyer versus
the rest of the open market committee is
where is neutral and he makes a big case
for population uh negative population
growth because of uh the negative labor
force growth because of immigration and
that should start to show up in the uh
jobs numbers but not necessarily in
terms of layoffs. So the jobless claims
numbers may not settle that debate.
Mike, how persuasive is his argument at
the moment? And how well received is it
based on the communication we've had
subsequently?
>> Well, it hasn't been extremely
wellreceived because there are some
holes in his story and some of the
research he's cited isn't necessarily
considered the best research. But the
real issue is he's talking about this
negative net migration, but the labor
force has not slowed, has not uh fallen.
So the impact he's talking about hasn't
happened yet. But the inflation impact
is still happening. So that's what the
rest of the open market committee is
looking at at this point and saying we
should be cautious here. Mike, stand by.
We'll get those results in just a
moment. I just want to tee you up with
the price action. 60 minutes out from
the open and bal. Equity futures are
negative by about a third of 1% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ, we're down by 0.5.
In the bond market, bond yields shaping
up as follows. Yields higher by about a
basis point on a 2-year to 363. with
that economic data with jobless claims
and a whole lot more. Here's Mike McKe.
>> Well, uh, John, we are certainly not
seeing any problems in the labor force
connected to jobless claims. 218,000,
a big drop from a revised 232,000
last month. Uh, so it doesn't look at
this point like we have a firing problem
at all. Uh, initial claims, uh,
continuing claims 1,926,000.
That's down a little bit from a revised
1,928,000.
So all in all, jobless claims numbers
still show companies sitting on the
sidelines not making decisions. Uh what
else have we got today? We've got the
advanced good trade balance. It is 85.5
a deficit of 85.5 billion. That's down
from 102.8
billion last month. There was a lot of
thought that what we were seeing in July
was imports pulled forward because the
tariffs were going to take effect in
August. They did take effect and it
looks like we've had quite a change in
import balances there. Durable goods
orders up 2.9% after falling 2.7%
the uh prior month in July. Uh the core
goods capital goods orders non-defense
xair up 610 that was up 1.1%. So, it's
down a little bit, but not uh not what
you would consider any kind of bad news.
And finally, we've got the GDP uh
annualized GDP numbers. Their third
revision, the second revision, the third
uh issue, 3.8%, a significant revision
up from 3.3%. Personal consumption is
the reason Americans spent more money.
2.5% from 1.6%.
uh no real change in the GDP quarterly
price indexes. 2.1% for headline uh on
the uh yearoveryear and uh 2.6% for
core. Both of those a little bit higher,
but uh that's not the number we're
looking at. We'll look tomorrow for the
latest monthly release.
>> M key. Thank you, sir. I just want to
sit on one data point. There are many
here, but let's pick out one. 218 on
jobless claims. 218. We're freaking out
about the labor market. Big downshift in
payrolls. I understand the concerns. I'm
not dismissing them. You see it. It's
real. But the fact that claims have come
in at 218, it doesn't speak to any kind
of weakness whatsoever.
>> And even continuing claims actually came
in slightly. They didn't expand. So
people are coming off that. Look, no one
is saying that this labor market is
falling into a ditch. The point is, do
you need to have a more robust no uh a
robust labor market in order to get
growth that can sustain a lot of the
expectations currently in markets? Do we
need things to be a little bit less
frozen? And ultimately that might be the
argument, but no one is saying that this
is a labor market that is falling off a
cliff.
>> I wish Governor Marin was still with us.
Pretty impressive data points there for
jobless claims at least. Yields are up
at the front end by, let's call it four
basis points on twos, 364. There's been
a steady grind higher in bond yields
ever since the Federal Reserve cut
interest rates last Wednesday. The
10-year bond yield tie by about three
basis points. So approaching again 420.
We're at 417. And in the equity market,
we were softer going into this print.
We're softer still coming out of it.
We're down 0.4. 4% on the S&P down by
0.8 on the small caps. Joining us around
the table, Nita Richardson of ADP. Nita,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Our claims number pretty impressive, eh?
>> It is. In fact, if I would have just
parachuted in from like some other place
in time, saw those numbers that Mike
McKe just read, I would be like, so
what's the issue? What's the problem
here? This is a perfect economy. But the
thing is, I've actually not parachuted
in. I've been here the whole time and
I've been looking at the data and there
are some cracks here that I want to
uncover because yes, it is a low higher
low fire. It's been wellestablished job
jobs market. It's a stasis that I've
been talking about with you for the
better part of a year. But if you look
that stasis is having an effect that is
not uniform in the labor market when it
comes to wages. And wages, as I've said
before, are the bridge between the jobs
market and inflation. Inflation, when I
look at those Fed projections, were four
years above target in two years to get
to target. So wages are going to play a
big role. And what you're seeing is that
for low wage earners, those are the ones
who were keeping wages higher for
longer, they are losing ground to high
income borrower uh high income uh
workers. So even though we have this low
fire, low hire uh labor market, wages
are suffering for those who are most
affected by inflation, low-income
earners. So this raises a question about
what that means on a bigger scale.
Whether this tends to be a leading
indicator of lower income workers are
not seeing the payraises that can keep
up with inflation. Whether that kind of
leads a broader downshift or if this
just continues to emphasize the K-shaped
economy where you have the high income
earners benefiting from their wages,
benefiting from the market and
benefiting from a world that seems to be
increasingly catering to them.
>> Exactly. So when you look at that GDP
print, it was on the backs of a 2 and
a.5% consumer spending growth. And that
growth we think of as being uh really
topheavy. So when you look at the labor
market, and I said this last week with
you, that the labor market is supporting
consumers, but it's not consu uh
supporting them uniformly. So for
highincome workers, you're seeing that
their wage growth is actually peaking up
from a year ago, whereas for low-income
workers, it's decelerating fast. And so
the disparity is rising, and that's
going to show up in consumer spending
trends. You're going to see this
disconnect between uh highincome people
and lowincome people. And who are those
low-income workers? Well, the majority
of them are women. 60% of workers at the
bottom of the pay distribution are women
compared to 30% at the top end of the
distribution and they are concentrated
in certain industries. Those industries
happen to be where all the gains have
been uh health and education, leisure
and hospitality. So this disconnect in
the labor market is going to show up in
a disconnect in consumer spending. If
the Fed were to cut rates aggressively
this year on the heels of our
conversation with Governor Steven Myron,
do you think that would change the
picture? Would you see a pickup in the
wages and the employment at the sort of
lower end of the income sphere?
>> It's hard to tell. You might see a
pickup in hiring, which would generate
uh some more momentum and wage growth at
the bottom end. um you may not see a
tilt in the housing market because that
is a also an inventory affordability
story and most mortgages are priced off
of the 10ear not the short-term rates.
So it's hard to tell exactly how Fed
policy would move through to Main
Street, but it wouldn't be
instantaneous. Fed policy is still going
to operate in with a lag on Main Street.
So you wouldn't see the gains, but with
38 3.8% 8% GDP growth. You probably
don't need to see those gains right now
um broadly. But to the people who it
matters most for, maybe there would be
an increase in hiring which would spill
over to wages.
>> Well, would it have to be a wage
increase if like Governor Meer says this
pace of immigration policy we're seeing
the Trump administration is not
short-term. He thinks this is going to
continue for the remainder of three and
a half years.
>> Well, let's hold there. Um, there's a
lot going on with demographics in the
labor market. It's not just immigration
policy. It's the fact that, you know,
10,000 Americans every day are turning
65 and older and leaving as well. Um, so
those shifts are being seen in the labor
force participation rate. It's edging
down. You have the sandwich generation
being impacted in terms of the number of
hours they can contribute if they're
taking care of their parents and their
children. So, there's a lot going on
demographically. What it ends up being
is labor shortages. Those shortages
could tilt up wages in the sectors that
are most needed to take care of an aging
population. But what I read in that is
inflation. Um, and that's what you don't
want to see. You don't want to see a
wage cycle that leads to an inflation
increase. When it comes to the other
part of the labor markets, of course, a
lot of these grads coming out of school
unable to find jobs. How much is AI part
of that story? Even though there should
be enough supply given what's happening
in immigration and given this aging
workforce,
>> AI is having an effect on early career.
Um, we've partnered with Stanford on
research uh showing just that using ADP
data that if you are in an AI exposed
field, a software developer, customer
service,
>> is that everything at this point? AI
exposed almost. No, there are some jobs
a plumber HVAC there's there's actually
quite a few jobs that are not AI exposed
but you know those aren't the jobs that
young people are especially college
graduates sometimes are oriented towards
but if you're in the health care field
um needed more than ever and you can see
the employment trends going up so not in
2025 maybe in 2035 every job will be an
AI exposed job but not now
>> it's good to see you always is thank you
Nita Richardson of ADP following that
better than expected jobless claims
data. The right kind of downside
surprise. Kevin Gordon at Charles Swap
writes in, "The biggest twoe drop in
claims since October 2021."
>> Yeah, if people were looking for some
sort of confirmation of ongoing
weakness. Well, congratulations. You
didn't get it. You actually got quite
the opposite. The sense that things
aren't falling out of bed. And it just
goes to the ultimate question that we've
been asking so much on this program,
which is, are we heading into a
reaceleration? Are we already seeing it
especially ahead of some of the infusion
of cash from the one big beautiful bill
and with the likes of the airlines
saying that actually they're seeing
bookings pick up. So I mean it might be
on the heels of the upper quintile of uh
earners but nonetheless that is the
personal spending that is some of what
you're seeing maybe in this data.
>> If you're long equities that's what
you're priced for into next year. Let's
see if we get it. Long equities with
reaceleration plus the interest rate
cuts. There will be questions about that
if we continue getting data like this in
the labor market. 218 for jobless
claims. Big downside surprise. The
estimate was 233 in our survey. Push
that through the bond market and you
were getting higher bond yields at the
front end of the curve up by five. Two's
up to 365. 10's up by four to about 418.
Let's get you an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Let's recap that latest
economic data. We saw weekly jobless
claims fall by 14,000 last week to
218,000. That's the lowest level since
mid July. Analysts survey surveyed by
Bloomberg were looking for 225,000 to
242,000.
And don't bet against the US consumer.
Personal spending for the second quarter
was revised up to 2.5% from 1.6%.
Meanwhile, Best Buy has been making job
cuts, including reductions to its Geek
Squad team. The changes come as the
electronics retailer has been impacted
by tariffs and struggled to reignite the
level of growth it saw from pandemic era
buying of computers and other gear.
Shares of the company are down nearly
14% so far this year as of yesterday's
close. And Jimmy Kimmel's return to late
night TV drew 6.3 million viewers, the
most ever in the show's regular time
slot. The total is significantly higher
than the 1.6 6 million viewers, Kimmel
has averaged this year. That's according
to Neielson data. The host's opening
monologue was also viewed more than 26
million times on YouTube and social
media services. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Appreciate it. Up next, we'll
catch up with Chris Heisy of Mel and
Bank of America Private Bank. Plus,
Danny has your morning movers. IBM
climbing after HSBC says it found a way
to use the company's quantum technology.
That stock is up by 2.8%.
[Music]
policy is quite restrictive and so I'd
like to adjust quickly to get back to a
more neutral area. Right? That just
means a series of 50s until you get
until you get much closer to zero. those
channels by which population growth
affects neutral rates didn't disappear.
I would rather react. I would rather act
proactively if you wait to sort of to
see the result of that. You have waited
too long.
>> Governor Myron making the case for much
lower interest rates and getting there
quickly. We just had data moments ago.
16 minutes ago, jobless claims 218. Big
downside surprise. No problem in this
labor market based on that data point.
The estimate was 233. The response to
it, bond yields higher, equity softer.
We're down by 0.5% on the S&P 500. On
the NASDAQ down by 0.7 with that move in
the bond market. Small caps down one
full percentage point. Twos at 366 with
about 44 minutes away to the opening
bell. Let's get you some morning movers.
Some single names. Here's Danny Burger.
Hey Danny. Hey John. Intel continues to
climb higher but has lost some of its
steam. Was up more than 1%. Now just up
half a percent on this report that they
approached Apple for an investment.
That's maybe the key that it was just an
approach. It's an early stages that you
are talking about how they can work
together. But a lot of skepticism
including Bernstein analysts saying that
IBM doesn't have a money problem
necessarily. It has a capability problem
and money won't help with that.
Elsewhere, CarMax shares plummeting this
morning. It missed on a variety of
metrics. Used car prices fell. Sales
fell to about 7%. It is very clear that
what CarMax saw in the first half of the
year was that pull forward effect from
tariffs and that has started to edge. So
shares there down 14%. Finally the buzzy
story of the morning and that is HSBC
saying hey we figured out quantum
computing. We are using IBM servers and
we've been able to more accurately
predict the price of bonds by 34% in a
trial. There's some questions as to how
you send that trial and if you can use
it more widely even so IBM shares up 2
and a half%. John,
>> what a crazy story. Danny, thank you.
Thanks for the update. Big rally for
that name this morning and others too.
Let's turn to the Federal Reserve. Chris
Heisy of Mel and Bank of America private
bank writing loosening conditions
including further Fed rate cuts support
risk assets further. Chris joins us now
for more. Chris, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks.
>> On top decent numbers like that, labor
market data. What you make of that
claims data?
>> I I make uh of it what I always do,
which is week to week is the data points
are pretty noisy. uh it doesn't
necessarily mean it's a trend, but it it
it is something that I think we'll
likely see, which is right around those
numbers for the foreseeable future.
There's a little bit of a supply and
demand balance uh in the job market
overall. Some many companies are still
in the wait and see mode as it relates
to how you democratize artificial
intelligence. So claims numbers are
pretty much in line with what our belief
is, which is a reaceleration coming not
just in real growth, but nominal growth
and ultimately profit growth. Are you
seeing any signs of that already beyond
that jobless claims number? Where you
seeing signs of a reaceleration? Where
are things firming up?
>> You know, it comes down at the beginning
of the year before the tariffs were put
in place. Um there was a this notion
that you'd have doubledigit profit
growth for this year and then next year.
Then it was ratcheted back by pretty
much everybody across Wall Street. Now
we're back to the numbers again where
they were at the beginning of the year.
So it's a reaceleration. We're seeing it
already in profit revisions, not just
for third and fourth quarter, but
already for 26. Do CEOs and CFOs believe
it? Do they believe it enough to
actually take big steps and engage in
some of the M&A, engage in some of the
hiring plans that they were talking
about maybe late last year, early this?
>> Really depends on the actual sector
obviously, but in terms of the general
broader community, you're starting to
see sentiment, the soft data start to
change for the better. Remember when we
were all talking about soft data being
weak and then it was going to filter
into the hard data? Never did. Now soft
data is coming back. uh you're seeing in
the small business segment a little bit
because of rates coming down but a
little bit better economy perhaps an
adjustment to the neutral rate coming
down a little bit as governor my just
said uh all of that coaleses around
better optimism from the corporate side
I would say this though margins have
held in there and that's the key the
bottom line is being used on an
efficient basis some productivity is
increasing but when you get a little bit
above average inflation that feeds
directly to the revenue line and you
don't have to produce as much to get
that higher revenue number. So that's
why margins have actually stayed in
there in some cases actually widened
out.
>> This sounds like a perfect scenario. It
sounds like just Nirvana, investing
Nirvana. It's priced as though it's
investing Nirvana, too, though. At what
point have we priced all of that in and
then some that leaves it kind of
vulnerable to anything that doesn't look
like what we just got from JavaS Claims?
>> Yeah, Lisa, that's a great point. And I
think a lot of that is priced in in the
here to now, but much of it is still not
priced in for next year. there's a
little bit of discounting of what the
story I just laid out already given
where the the S&P is 22 23 times
forward. Um I would say that in this
asset light world that has driven the
index higher multiples are higher
because they're still driving higher
revenue growth. And if you look at the
contribution of the tech sector it's
about 44% or so uh of the market cap of
the S&P but its earnings contribution is
in the 30s. It's very different than 99
and 2000 when the earnings contribution
was almost 1/ half of that peak.
>> The investors you speak with, are they
more worried about some sort of downturn
in the economy or are they more worried
about missing out in the next leg
higher?
>> You know, uh they're still worried about
the downside scenario. They're still
have that frame of mind of the credit
crisis, little frame of mind of what
happened in August through December of
2018 when the Federal Reserve was
raising rates when inflation was below
their target at that point. and then
fast forward into 22 with the inverted
yield curve and then the tariff
situation in April. So, they still have
all of this in their mind and they're
comfortable still getting a decent yield
on their cash.
On the flip side, there are some that
are very worried about missing the next
move, particularly as it relates to the
infrastructure buildout of artificial
intelligence. Uh we believe there's some
room to go there. We would caution
though, the signs of artificial
intelligence and infrastructure
buildout, peaking are all about the
margin, are all about the price side of
the equation. We're not seeing that yet,
but we need to watch that closely to to
understand what the demand for that will
be once all of this is built.
>> Clients that are concerned about the
downside, is it because they think we're
in a bubble?
>> Uh, they always talk about bubble.
Number one question I get right now is,
are we in a bubble? Are we?
>> Four different meetings yesterday.
Number one question. Uh in some cases uh
in areas that are low quality that don't
have any revenues that are built to
sky-high valuations, you can argue yes.
Uh in other areas where they're still
kicking off very good free cash flow,
the answer is no.
>> So what's your advice?
>> Uh the advice is diversified portfolio.
I know that sounds like okay that's
easy. You could right I know we talked
about the question investors are asking
>> but diversification works when you need
it the most and you can still
participate. So for us, it's about
having a little bit more non- US than
you would traditionally have. U we heard
before about potential weaker dollar.
Weaker dollar is probably a fading
dollar story, not necessarily a weaker
dollar story given where growth is for
us relative to the rest of the world and
their deficits relative to ours. Uh
small caps benefiting from a little bit
of lower rates on the short end and
potentially a reacelerating economy.
Midcaps for whatever M&A cycle is around
the corner. And then on the large cap
side, I think it's two stories. It's the
rest that we always talk about that are
starting to rotate a little bit, you
know, a little bit on the value side. Uh
those areas that were starved for
capital like materials and energy and
others. U we're still overweight
financials. We're still overweight u
industrials,
uh consumer discretionary and utilities.
We're trying to make sure that we stay
balanced where we can but participate in
the AI growth story.
>> Does balance mean a little bit of gold
as well? Well, it's fortunate we don't
actually have it in our asset allocation
schema overall, but yes, gold is showing
some incredibly different signs than it
normally would. Has a negative
correlation with treasuries right now,
which a lot of people aren't talking
about.
>> And a positive correlation with risk
assets for the year so far.
>> That's right. And also defensive assets.
It's throwing off signs. Again, it's not
perfect, but when you get one of the
largest central banks in the world
recycling their own foreign reserves and
euro reserves are not going up, but gold
is, that's an interesting story.
>> What do you think's behind all that? Is
there a dominant driver or just multiple
pillars?
>> I think it's this regional economic
trade zone developments from this ultra
competitive global world we were in for
so long as the world uh looked to the US
to fund their growth. Now, with all of
that switching, I think you're going to
have to see some of these central banks
diversify their reserve base. Brao
nodding along agrees with you entirely.
>> Well, if you look back to when it really
started, it was 2022 with the Ukraine
and Russia conflict with Russia invaded
Ukraine. This question of repatriating
some of the money and that really
kickstarted a central bank
diversification away from the dollar and
that I think people have just seen
accelerate from there.
>> Frozen assets are a big piece of this
conversation.
>> Absolutely. The Russians realized their
central bank realized they could just
freeze our foreign holdings. So, we need
to diversify. And then other dictators
around the world like the Chinese were
also like, "Wow, we should probably
actually up our gold as well."
>> Chris, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Thank you, sir. Chris Heisy
of Maryland Bank of America private
bank. Gold. What a year so far.
Equities, too, by the way. Both equities
and gold. Our guest from Deutsche Bank
earlier on this morning saying a lot of
people just liked what it was. The S&P,
it was gold and EM. The S&P, gold, and
EM.
>> Yeah. I just am imagining someone
walking through Midtown just totally
draped in gold saying I'm diversifying.
you know, I mean, at a certain point
security,
>> I just think it's really a an
interesting moment right now as people
rejigger uh their ideas of the macro
trade landscape and what it means to be
diversified.
>> We've got to wrap up and rejigger our
views on this labor market. That number
25 minutes ago, what a jobless claims
print 218. That's a really strong
figure. I'm struggling to get my head
around what these numbers mean exactly
because if we're looking at low hiring,
then if you have that level of firing
and you don't have that many of new
people brought in, what kind of stagnant
market are we looking at? This is a very
confusing economy. I don't know that
it's going to get that much clearer.
>> 218,000 the estimate was 233. The bond
market doesn't like it. Yields are up at
the front end by six basis points.
Equities a bit softer on the S&P 500.
Session lows were down by 0.5%. Coming
up tomorrow, Cameron Dawson of New Edge,
Mike Dada of Roth Capital, Victoria
Fernandez of Crossmark, and the former
Fed president, Jim Bollard from New York
City. This was Bloomberg surveillance.